docs-ref-conceptual/includes/azure-toolkit-for-intellij-prerequisites.md, before:

## Prerequisites
To complete the steps in his article, you will need to install the Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ, which requires the following software components:

* IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate Edition or Community Edition, which can be downloaded from the [JetBrains website](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/).
* A Java Developer Kit (JDK), version 1.8 or later.
* An operating system. The Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ has been tested on the following operating systems:
  
  * Windows 10, Windows 8.1, Windows 8, and Windows 7
  * Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2008 R2, and Windows Server 2008
  * [Mac OS X](http://www.apple.com/osx) version "Yosemite" or later
  * [Ubuntu Linux](http://www.ubuntu.com) version 14, 15, and 16

For more information, see the [Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8053) page at the JetBrains Plugin Repository.

<!--
> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you are using the Azure Toolkit for Eclipse on Windows, the toolkit requires installing the Azure SDK 2.9.6 or later in order to use the Azure emulator. You have two options for installing the Azure SDK:
> 
> * You can download and install the Azure SDK by using the [Web Platform Installer (WebPI)](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=252838).
> * If you do not have the Azure SDK installed when you create your first Azure deployment project, you will be prompted to automatically download install the requisite version of the Azure SDK.
> 
> Note that the Azure SDK is only required on Windows.
> 
> 
-->

Commit message:

Updating include files with version compatibility info

docs-ref-conceptual/includes/azure-toolkit-for-intellij-prerequisites.md, after:

## Prerequisites
To complete the steps in his article, you will need to install the Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ, which requires the following software components:

* IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate Edition or Community Edition, which can be downloaded from the [JetBrains website](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/).
* A Java Developer Kit (JDK), version 1.8 or later.
* An operating system. The Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ has been tested on the following operating systems:
  
  * Windows 10, Windows 8.1, Windows 8, and Windows 7
  * Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2008 R2, and Windows Server 2008
  * [Mac OS X](http://www.apple.com/osx) version "Yosemite" and later
  * [Ubuntu Linux](http://www.ubuntu.com) version 14, 15, and 16

> [!NOTE]
> 
> The [Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8053) page at the JetBrains Plugin Repository lists the builds that are compatible with the toolkit.
> 

<!--
> [!IMPORTANT]
> 
> If you are using the Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ on Windows, the toolkit requires installing the Azure SDK 2.9.6 or later in order to use the Azure emulator. You have two options for installing the Azure SDK:
> 
> * You can download and install the Azure SDK by using the [Web Platform Installer (WebPI)](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=252838).
> * If you do not have the Azure SDK installed when you create your first Azure deployment project, you will be prompted to automatically download install the requisite version of the Azure SDK.
> 
> Note that the Azure SDK is only required on Windows.
> 
-->
