docs-ref-conceptual/java-sdk-azure-install.md, before:

---
title: Azure for Java developers Microsoft Docs
description: Java SDK and API Reference for Azure
keywords: Azure Java, Azure Java API Reference, Azure Java class library, Azure SDK
author: routlaw
manager: douge
ms.assetid: 7b92e776-959b-4632-8b1d-047ce1417616
ms.service: Azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.topic: reference
ms.technology: Azure
ms.date: 3/06/2016
---

# Azure libraries for Java

Use Azure libraries in your Java projects to [manage resources](#management) and integrate services in your applications.  

| | | | |
|:-------------:|:----------:|:----:|:---:|
| [Azure Storage](#azure-storage) | [SQL Database](#sql-database)  | [Redis Cache](#redis-cache)   | [DocumentDB](#documentdb) |
| [Service Bus](#servicebus)  | [Azure Active Directory](#azuread) | [Key Vault](#keyvault)  | [Event Hub](#eventhub)
| [IoT Service](#iotservice) | [IoT Device](#iotdevice) | [Data Lake](#datalake)  | [AppInsights](#appinsights) | 
| [Batch](#batch) | [Manage Azure resources](#management) |

## Install with Maven

Add a dependency entry in your `pom.xml` to import a library into your [Maven](https://maven.apache.org) project.

For example, to include the latest version of the [Azure management libraries](#management):

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Other Java build tools like Gradle are supported but the install steps are not provided in this article. Review the documentation for your build tool on how to consume Maven imports.

## Azure service libraries

Use these libraries to consume and integrate Azure services in your applications.

<a name="azure-storage"></a>

### [Azure Storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/storage-introduction)  

Data storage and messaging for your applications.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-storage</artifactId>
    <version>5.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```   

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-java/tree/master/microsoft-azure-storage-samples/src/com/microsoft/azure/storage) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-java)  

<a name="sql-database"></a>

### [SQL Database](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sql-database/sql-database-technical-overview)

JDBC driver for Azure SQL Database.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.sqlserver</groupId>
    <artifactId>mssql-jdbc</artifactId>
    <version>6.1.0.jre8</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/step-3-proof-of-concept-connecting-to-sql-using-java) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/mssql-jdbc)  

<a name="redis-cache"></a>

### [Redis Cache](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cache/)

Low-latency, high-performance distributed key-value store.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>redis.clients</groupId>
    <artifactId>jedis</artifactId>
    <version>2.9.0</version>
    <type>jar</type>
    <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
```   

[Reference](http://xetorthio.github.io/jedis) | [Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/redis-cache/cache-java-get-started) | [GitHub](https://github.com/xetorthio/jedis)    

<a name="documentdb"></a>

### [DocumentDB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/documentdb/documentdb-introduction)

Scalable NoSQL database with JSON documents and SQL or JavaScript query syntax.   

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-documentdb</artifactId>
    <version>1.10.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/documentdb/documentdb-java-application) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java)   

<a name="servicebus"></a>

### [Service Bus](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-fundamentals-hybrid-solutions)

Java Message Service (JMS) support through [AMQP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Message_Queuing_Protocol) to connect your applications.

```XML
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.qpid</groupId>
  <artifactId>qpid-jms-client</artifactId>
  <version>0.22.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Reference](http://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/javax/jms/package-summary.html) | [Sample](https://github.com/apache/qpid-jms/tree/0.20.0/qpid-jms-examples) | [GitHub](https://github.com/apache/qpid-jms)    

<a name="azuread"></a>

### [Azure Active Directory](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/active-directory-whatis)   

Identity management and secure sign-in for your applications.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>adal4j</artifactId>
    <version>1.2.0</version>
</dependency>
```
   
[Samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=active%20directory%20&type=&language=java) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-library-for-java) 
 
<a name="keyvault"></a>

### [Key Vault](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault) 

Encrypt secrets and safely access them from your applications. 

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-keyvault</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/key-vault-java-manage-key-vaults) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java)  

<a name="eventhub"></a>

### [Event Hub](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-what-is-event-hubs) 
   
High throughput event and telemetry handling for your instrumentation or IoT scenarios.

```XML
<dependency> 
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId> 
    <artifactId>azure-eventhubs</artifactId> 
    <version>0.13.1</version> 
</dependency>   
```

[Samples](https://github.com/azure/azure-event-hubs-java#publishing-events) | [GitHub](https://github.com/azure/azure-event-hubs-java)  

<a name="iotservice"></a> 

### [IoT Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/)

Manage identities, send messages, and get feedback from devices in your IoT hub.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure.sdk.iot</groupId>
    <artifactId>iot-service-client</artifactId>
    <version>1.3.19</version>
</dependency>
```   
   
[Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java/tree/master/service/iot-service-samples) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java) 

<a name="iotdevice"></a> 

### [IoT Device](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide)

Send a message to an IoT hub from your device.  

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure.sdk.iot</groupId>
    <artifactId>iot-device-client</artifactId>
    <version>1.1.25</version>
</dependency>
```  

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java/tree/master/device/iot-device-samples) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java) 

<a name="datalake"></a> 

### [Data Lake Store](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-lake-store/data-lake-store-overview)   
   
Capture data of any size and shape into a single location for performing analytics.    

```XML
<dependency>
   <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
   <artifactId>azure-data-lake-store-sdk</artifactId>
   <version>2.1.4</version>
</dependency>
```   

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/data-lake-store-java-upload-download-get-started) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-data-lake-store-java) 

<a name="appinsights"></a> 

### [AppInsights](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/application-insights/app-insights-overview)

Track usage, add telemetry, and monitor your web apps.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.7</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-insights/app-insights-java-get-started) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java) 

<a name="batch"></a>

### [Batch](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/batch)

Run large-scale parallel and high-performance computing applications efficiently in the cloud.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-batch</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://github.com/azure/azure-batch-samples) | [GitHub](https://github.com/azure/azure-batch-sdk-for-java) 

<a name="management"></a> 

## Azure management 

Create, update, and delete Azure resources from your application code.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java#sample-code) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java)

Commit message:

add more trackbacks to Java developers, clean up

docs-ref-conceptual/java-sdk-azure-install.md, after:

---
title: Azure for Java developers Microsoft Docs
description: Java SDK and API Reference for Azure
keywords: Azure Java, Azure Java API Reference, Azure Java class library, Azure SDK
author: routlaw
manager: douge
ms.assetid: 7b92e776-959b-4632-8b1d-047ce1417616
ms.service: Azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.topic: reference
ms.technology: Azure
ms.date: 3/06/2016
---

# Azure libraries for Java

Leverage Azure libraries in your Java projects to natively integrate Azure services in your applications. Each library isn't dependent on other Azure libraries-pick and choose just what you need from the list below.

| | | | |
|:-------------:|:----------:|:----:|:---:|
| [Azure Storage](#azure-storage) | [SQL Database](#sql-database)  | [Redis Cache](#redis-cache)   | [DocumentDB](#documentdb) |
| [Service Bus](#servicebus)  | [Azure Active Directory](#azuread) | [Key Vault](#keyvault)  | [Event Hub](#eventhub)
| [IoT Service](#iotservice) | [IoT Device](#iotdevice) | [Data Lake](#datalake)  | [AppInsights](#appinsights) | 
| [Batch](#batch) | [Manage Azure resources](#management) |

## Install with Maven

Add a dependency entry in your `pom.xml` to import a library into your [Maven](https://maven.apache.org) project.

For example, to include the latest version of the [Azure Management libraries for Java](#management):

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Other Java build tools like Gradle are supported but the install steps are not provided in this article. Review the documentation for your build tool on how to consume Maven imports.

## Azure service libraries

Integrate Azure services to add functionality to your apps using these libraries. Learn more about building apps with Azure services at [Azure for Java developers](https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/java/index?branch=pr-en-us-9782).

<a name="azure-storage"></a>

### [Azure Storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/storage-introduction)  

Data storage and messaging for your applications.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-storage</artifactId>
    <version>5.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```   

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-java/tree/master/microsoft-azure-storage-samples/src/com/microsoft/azure/storage) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-java)  

<a name="sql-database"></a>

### [SQL Database](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sql-database/sql-database-technical-overview)

JDBC driver for Azure SQL Database.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.sqlserver</groupId>
    <artifactId>mssql-jdbc</artifactId>
    <version>6.1.0.jre8</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/step-3-proof-of-concept-connecting-to-sql-using-java) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/mssql-jdbc)  

<a name="redis-cache"></a>

### [Redis Cache](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cache/)

Low-latency, high-performance key-value store.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>redis.clients</groupId>
    <artifactId>jedis</artifactId>
    <version>2.9.0</version>
    <type>jar</type>
    <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
```   

[Reference](http://xetorthio.github.io/jedis) | [Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/redis-cache/cache-java-get-started) | [GitHub](https://github.com/xetorthio/jedis)    

<a name="documentdb"></a>

### [DocumentDB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/documentdb/documentdb-introduction)

Scalable NoSQL database with JSON documents and a SQL or JavaScript query syntax.   

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-documentdb</artifactId>
    <version>1.10.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/documentdb/documentdb-java-application) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java)   

<a name="servicebus"></a>

### [Service Bus](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-fundamentals-hybrid-solutions)

Java Message Service (JMS) support through [AMQP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Message_Queuing_Protocol) to connect your applications.

```XML
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.qpid</groupId>
  <artifactId>qpid-jms-client</artifactId>
  <version>0.22.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Reference](http://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/javax/jms/package-summary.html) | [Sample](https://github.com/apache/qpid-jms/tree/0.20.0/qpid-jms-examples) | [GitHub](https://github.com/apache/qpid-jms)    

<a name="azuread"></a>

### [Azure Active Directory](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/active-directory-whatis)   

Identity management and secure sign-in for your applications.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>adal4j</artifactId>
    <version>1.2.0</version>
</dependency>
```
   
[Samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=active%20directory%20&type=&language=java) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-library-for-java) 
 
<a name="keyvault"></a>

### [Key Vault](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault) 

Safely access keys and secrets from your applications. 

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-keyvault</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/key-vault-java-manage-key-vaults) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java)  

<a name="eventhub"></a>

### [Event Hub](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-what-is-event-hubs) 
   
High throughput event and telemetry handling for your instrumentation or IoT scenarios.

```XML
<dependency> 
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId> 
    <artifactId>azure-eventhubs</artifactId> 
    <version>0.13.1</version> 
</dependency>   
```

[Samples](https://github.com/azure/azure-event-hubs-java#publishing-events) | [GitHub](https://github.com/azure/azure-event-hubs-java)  

<a name="iotservice"></a> 

### [IoT Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/)

Manage identities, send messages, and get feedback from devices registered with your IoT hub.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure.sdk.iot</groupId>
    <artifactId>iot-service-client</artifactId>
    <version>1.3.19</version>
</dependency>
```   
   
[Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java/tree/master/service/iot-service-samples) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java) 

<a name="iotdevice"></a> 

### [IoT Device](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide)

Send a message to an IoT hub from your device.  

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure.sdk.iot</groupId>
    <artifactId>iot-device-client</artifactId>
    <version>1.1.25</version>
</dependency>
```  

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java/tree/master/device/iot-device-samples) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java) 

<a name="datalake"></a> 

### [Data Lake Store](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-lake-store/data-lake-store-overview)   
   
Capture data of any size and shape into a single location for performing analytics.    

```XML
<dependency>
   <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
   <artifactId>azure-data-lake-store-sdk</artifactId>
   <version>2.1.4</version>
</dependency>
```   

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/data-lake-store-java-upload-download-get-started) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-data-lake-store-java) 

<a name="appinsights"></a> 

### [AppInsights](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/application-insights/app-insights-overview)

Track usage, add telemetry, and monitor your web apps.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>applicationinsights-web</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.7</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-insights/app-insights-java-get-started) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java) 

<a name="batch"></a>

### [Batch](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/batch)

Run large-scale parallel and high-performance computing applications efficiently in the cloud.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-batch</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://github.com/azure/azure-batch-samples) | [GitHub](https://github.com/azure/azure-batch-sdk-for-java) 

<a name="management"></a> 

## Manage Azure resources

Create, update, and delete Azure resources from your application code.

```XML
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

[Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java#sample-code) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java)
