docs-ref-conceptual/java-sdk-azure-web-apps-samples.md, before:

---
title: Azure SDK for Java web app samples
description: Get sample code for creating and updating Azure web apps hosted in App SErvice using the Java SDK for Azure
keywords: Azure, Java, SDK, API, Maven, Gradle, web apps, app service
author: rloutlaw
ms.author: routlaw
manager: douge
ms.date: 04/16/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: multiple
ms.assetid: 43633e5c-9fb1-4807-ba63-e24c126754e2
---

# Azure SDK for Java samples for web apps

| **Create an app** ||
|---|---|
| [Create a web app and deploy from FTP or GitHub][6] | Deploy web apps through local Git, FTP, and continuous integration from GitHub. |
| [Create a web app and manage deployment slots][7] | Create a web app and deploy to staging slots, then swap between slots. |
| **Configure app** ||
| [Create a web app and configure a custom domain][8] | Create a web app with a custom domain and self-signed SSL certificate. |
| **Scale apps** ||
| [Scale a web app with high availability across multiple regions][11] | Scale a web app in three different geographical regions and make them available through a single endpoint using Azure Traffic Manager. | 
| **Connect app to resources** ||
| [Connect a web app to a storage account][9] | Create an Azure storage account and add the storage account connection string to the app settings. |
| [Connect a web app to a SQL database][10] | Create a web app and SQL database, then add the SQL database connection string to the app settings. |

[6]: java-sdk-azure-configure-webapp-sources.md
[7]: java-sdk-azure-configure-deployment-slots.md
[8]: java-sdk-azure-configure-custom-domain.md
[9]: java-connect-app-storage-account,md
[10]: java-connect-app-storage-account,md
[11]: java-connect-app-storage-account,md

Commit message:

rename to Azure management libaries for Java

docs-ref-conceptual/java-sdk-azure-web-apps-samples.md, after:

---
title: Azure Management libraries for Java web app samples
description: Get sample code for creating and updating Azure web apps hosted in App SErvice using the Azure Management libraries for Java
keywords: Azure, Java, SDK, API, Maven, Gradle, web apps, app service
author: rloutlaw
ms.author: routlaw
manager: douge
ms.date: 04/16/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: multiple
ms.assetid: 43633e5c-9fb1-4807-ba63-e24c126754e2
---

# Azure Management libraries for Java samples for web apps

| **Create an app** ||
|---|---|
| [Create a web app and deploy from FTP or GitHub][6] | Deploy web apps through local Git, FTP, and continuous integration from GitHub. |
| [Create a web app and manage deployment slots][7] | Create a web app and deploy to staging slots, then swap between slots. |
| **Configure app** ||
| [Create a web app and configure a custom domain][8] | Create a web app with a custom domain and self-signed SSL certificate. |
| **Scale apps** ||
| [Scale a web app with high availability across multiple regions][11] | Scale a web app in three different geographical regions and make them available through a single endpoint using Azure Traffic Manager. | 
| **Connect app to resources** ||
| [Connect a web app to a storage account][9] | Create an Azure storage account and add the storage account connection string to the app settings. |
| [Connect a web app to a SQL database][10] | Create a web app and SQL database, then add the SQL database connection string to the app settings. |

[6]: java-sdk-azure-configure-webapp-sources.md
[7]: java-sdk-azure-configure-deployment-slots.md
[8]: java-sdk-azure-configure-custom-domain.md
[9]: java-connect-app-storage-account,md
[10]: java-connect-app-storage-account,md
[11]: java-connect-app-storage-account,md
