docs-ref-conceptual/java-sdk-azure-sql-database-samples.md, before:

---
title: Azure SDK for Java SQL Database samples
description: Get sample code for creating and updating Azure SQL databases using the Java SDK for Azure
keywords: Azure, Java, SDK, API, Maven, Gradle, SQL database
author: rloutlaw
ms.author: routlaw
manager: douge
ms.date: 04/16/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: multiple
ms.assetid: e4537f38-a60d-4218-a9ba-3cba7af61b8b
---


# Azure SDK for Java samples for SQL Database

| **Create databases** ||
|---|---|
| [Create and manage SQL databases][2] | Create SQL databases, set performance levels, and configure firewalls.  | 
| **Scale databases** ||
|---|---|
| [Manage SQL databases across multiple regions][2] | Create a master SQL databases and read-only databases from the master in multiple regions. Connect VMs to their nearest SQL database instance with a virtual network and firewall rules. | 
| **Elastic Pools** ||
|---|---|
| [Manage SQL Databases in elastic pools][2] | Create, delete, and move SQL databases in and out of elastic pools. | 

[2]: java-sdk-azure-configure-webapp-sources.md

Commit message:

rename to Azure management libaries for Java

docs-ref-conceptual/java-sdk-azure-sql-database-samples.md, after:

---
title: Azure Management libraries for Java SQL Database samples
description: Get sample code for creating and updating Azure SQL databases using the Azure Management libraries for Java
keywords: Azure, Java, SDK, API, Maven, Gradle, SQL database
author: rloutlaw
ms.author: routlaw
manager: douge
ms.date: 04/16/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: multiple
ms.assetid: e4537f38-a60d-4218-a9ba-3cba7af61b8b
---


# Azure Management libraries for Java samples for SQL Database

| **Create databases** ||
|---|---|
| [Create and manage SQL databases][2] | Create SQL databases, set performance levels, and configure firewalls.  | 
| **Scale databases** ||
|---|---|
| [Manage SQL databases across multiple regions][2] | Create a master SQL databases and read-only databases from the master in multiple regions. Connect VMs to their nearest SQL database instance with a virtual network and firewall rules. | 
| **Elastic Pools** ||
|---|---|
| [Manage SQL Databases in elastic pools][2] | Create, delete, and move SQL databases in and out of elastic pools. | 

[2]: java-sdk-azure-configure-webapp-sources.md
