docs-ref-conceptual/java-sdk-azure-resource-groups-samples.md, before:

---
title: Azure SDK for Java resource manager samples
description: Get sample code for creating and updating Azure resource groups using the Java SDK for Azure
keywords: Azure, Java, SDK, API, Maven, Gradle, resource groups
author: rloutlaw
ms.author: routlaw
manager: douge
ms.date: 04/16/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: multiple
ms.assetid: 259f6804-17d9-48d6-ba57-f61ef6909a4e
---


# Azure SDK for Java samples for Azure resource manager

The following table includes links to Java source code to create and configure Azure resource groups and work with resource manager templates.   

| **Manage resource groups** ||
|---|---|
| [Create and manage resource groups][8] | Create, update, list, and delete resource groups in a subscription.
| **Work with resource manager templates** ||
| [Deploy a virtual machine with managed disks using an ARM template][8] | Deploy a new virtual machine with attached storage from a predefined template. |
| [Monitor progress of resources deployed with ARM templates][8] | Monitor deployment of resources from a template. | 

[8]: java-sdk-azure-configure-custom-domain.md

Commit message:

rename to Azure management libaries for Java

docs-ref-conceptual/java-sdk-azure-resource-groups-samples.md, after:

---
title: Azure Management libraries for Java resource manager samples
description: Get sample code for creating and updating Azure resource groups using the Azure Management libraries for Java
keywords: Azure, Java, SDK, API, Maven, Gradle, resource groups
author: rloutlaw
ms.author: routlaw
manager: douge
ms.date: 04/16/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: multiple
ms.assetid: 259f6804-17d9-48d6-ba57-f61ef6909a4e
---


# Azure Management libraries for Java samples for Azure resource manager

The following table includes links to Java source code to create and configure Azure resource groups and work with resource manager templates.   

| **Manage resource groups** ||
|---|---|
| [Create and manage resource groups][8] | Create, update, list, and delete resource groups in a subscription.
| **Work with resource manager templates** ||
| [Deploy a virtual machine with managed disks using an ARM template][8] | Deploy a new virtual machine with attached storage from a predefined template. |
| [Monitor progress of resources deployed with ARM templates][8] | Monitor deployment of resources from a template. | 

[8]: java-sdk-azure-configure-custom-domain.md
