docs-ref-conceptual/java-azure-tools.md, before:

---
title: Tools for Azure Java developers | Microsoft Docs
description: IDE integrations, emulators, resource explorers, and command-line interfaces for Java developers working on Azure.
author: rloutlaw
manager: douge
ms.assetid: b55923b7-d60a-460d-b77c-af5fac67f1cc
ms.devlang: java
ms.topic: article
ms.service: Azure
ms.technology: Azure
ms.date: 4/10/2017
ms.author: routlaw;asirveda
---

# Azure tools for Java developers

## Eclipse and IntelliJ plugins

Manage Azure resources and deploy apps from your IDE with The Azure toolkits for [Eclipse](eclipse/azure-toolkit-for-eclipse.md) and [IntelliJ](intellij/azure-toolkit-for-intellij.md).   

![IntelliJ toolkit showing the Azure Explorer](media/intelliJ-azure-explorer.png)

[Get started with Azure Toolkit for Eclipse](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service-web/app-service-web-eclipse-create-hello-world-web-app) | [Get started with Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service-web/app-service-web-intellij-create-hello-world-web-app) 

## Visual Studio Code

[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is a lightweight but powerful code editor available for MacOS, Windows, and Linux. VS Code supports a simple, modern Java development workflow through a set of extensions that provide project support, code completion, debugging, linting, and navigation.

[Get Started with VS Code and Java](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java)
[Java extension pack for VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java/extensions)  

## Azure CLI 2.0

The Azure 2.0 CLI provides a command-line experience to manage Azure resources. You can use it in your browser with [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/overview), or you can [install](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) it on macOS, Linux, and Windows and run it from the command line.

[Get started with Azure CLI 2.0](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/get-started-with-azure-cli).

## Azure Storage Explorer 

Manage Azure storage accounts, containers, and blobs/files from your desktop. Azure Storage Explorer is currently in Preview and works on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

[Get started with Azure Storage Explorer](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/vs-azure-tools-storage-manage-with-storage-explorer)

Commit message:

more changes to link jdk content

docs-ref-conceptual/java-azure-tools.md, after:

---
title: Tools for Azure Java developers | Microsoft Docs
description: IDE integrations, emulators, resource explorers, and command-line interfaces for Java developers working on Azure.
author: rloutlaw
manager: douge
ms.assetid: b55923b7-d60a-460d-b77c-af5fac67f1cc
ms.devlang: java
ms.topic: article
ms.service: Azure
ms.technology: Azure
ms.date: 4/10/2017
ms.author: routlaw;asirveda
---

# Azure tools for Java developers

## Supported JDK runtimes

Java developers on Azure and Azure Stack can build and run production Java 7,8, and 11 applications using [Azul Systems Zulu Enterprise builds of OpenJDK](https://www.azul.com/downloads/azure-only/zulu/) without incurring additional support costs. If you’re currently running Java apps with other JDKs, consider migrating to Zulu on Azure for free support and maintenance. 

[Learn more](java-supported-jdk-runtime.md) about Azure supported Java runtimes.

## Eclipse and IntelliJ plugins

Manage Azure resources and deploy apps from your IDE with The Azure toolkits for [Eclipse](eclipse/azure-toolkit-for-eclipse.md) and [IntelliJ](intellij/azure-toolkit-for-intellij.md).   

![IntelliJ toolkit showing the Azure Explorer](media/intelliJ-azure-explorer.png)

[Get started with Azure Toolkit for Eclipse](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service-web/app-service-web-eclipse-create-hello-world-web-app) | [Get started with Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service-web/app-service-web-intellij-create-hello-world-web-app) 

## Visual Studio Code

[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is a lightweight but powerful code editor available for MacOS, Windows, and Linux. VS Code supports a simple, modern Java development workflow through a set of extensions that provide project support, code completion, debugging, linting, and navigation.

[Get Started with VS Code and Java](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java)
[Java extension pack for VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java/extensions)  

## Azure CLI 2.0

The Azure 2.0 CLI provides a command-line experience to manage Azure resources. You can use it in your browser with [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/overview), or you can [install](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) it on macOS, Linux, and Windows and run it from the command line.

[Get started with Azure CLI 2.0](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/get-started-with-azure-cli).

## Azure Storage Explorer 

Manage Azure storage accounts, containers, and blobs/files from your desktop. Azure Storage Explorer is currently in Preview and works on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

[Get started with Azure Storage Explorer](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/vs-azure-tools-storage-manage-with-storage-explorer)
