docs-ref-services/storage-common-readme.md, before:

# Azure Storage Common client library for Java
Azure Storage Common is a library that has common dependencies for all Azure Storage packages.

[Source code][source] | [API reference documentation][docs] 

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- [Java Development Kit (JDK)][jdk] with version 8 or above
- [Azure Subscription][azure_subscription]
- [Create Storage Account][storage_account]

### Include the package

[//]: # ({x-version-update-start;com.azure:azure-storage-common;current})
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-storage-common</artifactId>
    <version>12.6.0</version>
</dependency>
```
[//]: # ({x-version-update-end})

## Key concepts


## Examples


## Troubleshooting

### Default HTTP Client
All client libraries by default use the Netty HTTP client. Adding the above dependency will automatically configure 
the client library to use the Netty HTTP client. Configuring or changing the HTTP client is detailed in the
[HTTP clients wiki](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/wiki/HTTP-clients).

### Default SSL library
All client libraries, by default, use the Tomcat-native Boring SSL library to enable native-level performance for SSL 
operations. The Boring SSL library is an uber jar containing native libraries for Linux / macOS / Windows, and provides 
better performance compared to the default SSL implementation within the JDK. For more information, including how to 
reduce the dependency size, refer to the [performance tuning][performance_tuning] section of the wiki.

## Next steps

## Next steps Samples

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)][cla] declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us the rights to use your contribution.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct][coc]. For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ][coc_faq] or contact [opencode@microsoft.com][coc_contact] with any additional questions or comments.

<!-- LINKS -->
[source]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/tree/2d2f9b2c1c5f73f0b4bfb2eabe376239998e98d7/../../azure-sdk-for-java/sdk/storage/azure-storage-common/src
[samples_readme]: src/samples/README.md
[docs]: http://azure.github.io/azure-sdk-for-java/
[sas_token]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/common/storage-dotnet-shared-access-signature-part-1
[jdk]: https://docs.microsoft.com/java/azure/jdk/
[azure_subscription]: https://azure.microsoft.com/free/
[storage_account]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/common/storage-quickstart-create-account?tabs=azure-portal
[cla]: https://cla.microsoft.com
[coc]: https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/
[coc_faq]: https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/
[coc_contact]: mailto:opencode@microsoft.com

![Impressions](https://azure-sdk-impressions.azurewebsites.net/api/impressions/azure-sdk-for-java%2Fsdk%2Fstorage%2Fazure-storage-common%2FREADME.png)

Commit message:

Smoke-Test -> Master (#1031)
* June Onboarding

Co-authored-by: azure-sdk <azuresdk@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Scott Beddall <scbedd@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Chidozie Ononiwu <chononiw@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Chidozie Ononiwu <31145988+chidozieononiwu@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: anmeng10101 <33647870+anmeng10101@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: VSC-Service-Account <vscavu@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Scott Beddall <45376673+scbedd@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Azure SDK Bot <53356347+azure-sdk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs-ref-services/storage-common-readme.md, after:

---
title: Azure Storage Common shared library for Java
keywords: Azure, java, SDK, API, storage, azure-storage-common, 
author: maggiepint
ms.author: magpint
ms.date: 06/13/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: storage
---

# Azure Storage Common shared library for Java - Version 12.7.0 

Azure Storage Common is a library that has common dependencies for all Azure Storage packages.

[Source code][source] | [API reference documentation][docs]

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- [Java Development Kit (JDK)][jdk] with version 8 or above
- [Azure Subscription][azure_subscription]
- [Create Storage Account][storage_account]

### Include the package

[//]: # ({x-version-update-start;com.azure:azure-storage-common;current})
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-storage-common</artifactId>
    <version>12.7.0</version>
</dependency>
```
[//]: # ({x-version-update-end})

## Key concepts


## Examples


## Troubleshooting

### Default HTTP Client
All client libraries by default use the Netty HTTP client. Adding the above dependency will automatically configure
the client library to use the Netty HTTP client. Configuring or changing the HTTP client is detailed in the
[HTTP clients wiki](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/wiki/HTTP-clients).

### Default SSL library
All client libraries, by default, use the Tomcat-native Boring SSL library to enable native-level performance for SSL
operations. The Boring SSL library is an uber jar containing native libraries for Linux / macOS / Windows, and provides
better performance compared to the default SSL implementation within the JDK. For more information, including how to
reduce the dependency size, refer to the [performance tuning][performance_tuning] section of the wiki.

## Next steps

## Next steps Samples

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)][cla] declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us the rights to use your contribution.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct][coc]. For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ][coc_faq] or contact [opencode@microsoft.com][coc_contact] with any additional questions or comments.

<!-- LINKS -->
[source]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/tree/e68b2fcf6170bb392b4c9b846008cf0aa2395c82/sdk/storage/azure-storage-common/src
[samples_readme]: src/samples/README.md
[docs]: http://azure.github.io/azure-sdk-for-java/
[sas_token]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/common/storage-dotnet-shared-access-signature-part-1
[jdk]: https://docs.microsoft.com/java/azure/jdk/
[azure_subscription]: https://azure.microsoft.com/free/
[storage_account]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/common/storage-quickstart-create-account?tabs=azure-portal
[cla]: https://cla.microsoft.com
[coc]: https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/
[coc_faq]: https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/
[coc_contact]: mailto:opencode@microsoft.com

![Impressions](https://azure-sdk-impressions.azurewebsites.net/api/impressions/azure-sdk-for-java%2Fsdk%2Fstorage%2Fazure-storage-common%2FREADME.png)
