docs-ref-conceptual/spring-framework/configure-spring-boot-java-applicationinsights.md, before:

---
title: Configure a Spring Boot Initializer app to use Azure Application Insights SpringBoot Starter
description: Configure a Spring Boot application created with the Spring Initializr to use Appliaction Insights SpringBoot Starter.
services: Application-Insights
documentationcenter: java
author: dhaval24
manager: alexklim
editor: ''
ms.assetid:
ms.author: dhdoshi
ms.date: 12/17/2018
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: Azure Monitor
ms.tgt_pltfrm: application-insights
ms.topic: article
ms.workload: na
---

# Configure a Spring Boot Initializer app to use Application Insights

This article walks you through creating a Spring Boot application using **[Spring Initializr]**, that uses Azure Application Insights Spring Boot Starter for end-to-end monitoring of Java applications on cloud.

## Prerequisites

The following prerequisites are required in order to complete the steps in this article:

* An Azure subscription; if you don't already have an Azure subscription, you can activate your [MSDN subscriber benefits] or sign up for a [free Azure account].
* A supported Java Development Kit (JDK). For more information about the JDKs available for use when developing on Azure, see <https://aka.ms/azure-jdks>.
* [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), version 3.0 or later.

## Create a custom application using the Spring Initializr

1. Browse to [https://start.spring.io/](https://start.spring.io/).

1. Specify that you want to generate a **Maven** project with **Java**, enter the **Group** and **Artifact** names for your application, and then select web dependency in the dependenies section.

   ![Basic Spring Initializr options][SI01]

   > [!NOTE]
   >
   > The Spring Initializr will use the **Group** and **Artifact** names to create the package name; for example: *com.example.demo*.
   >

1. Click the button to **Generate Project**.

1. When prompted, download the project to a path on your local computer.

1. After you have extracted the files on your local system, your custom Spring Boot application will be ready for editing.

   ![Custom Spring Boot project files][SI02]

## Create an Application Insights Resource on Azure

1. Browse to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com/> and click **+New**.

   ![Azure portal][AZ01]

1. Click **Management Tools**, and then click **Application Insights**.

   ![Azure portal][AZ02]

1. On the **New Application Insights Resource** page, specify the following information:

   * Enter the **Name** for your Application Insights resource.
   * Choose the **Application Type** to Java Web Application.
   * Specify your **Subscription**, **Resource group** and **Location**.
   * Select Pin to dashboard option, if you would like to pin the resource on your Azure portal.

   When you have specified these options, click **Create** to create your Application Insights resource.

   ![Azure portal][AZ03]

1. Once your resource has been created, you will see it listed on your Azure **Dashboard**, as well as under the **All Resources** pages. You can click on your resource on any of those locations to open the overview page of the Application Insights resource. From this overview page please copy the **instrumentation key**.

   ![Azure portal][AZ04]

## Configure your downloaded Spring Boot Application to use Application Insights

1. Locate the *POM.xml* file in the root directory of your app, and add the following dependency in its dependencies section. 

```XML
 <dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>1.1.1</version>
</dependency>
```

1. Locate the *application.properties* file in the *resources* directory of your app, or create the file if it does not already exist.

   ![Locate the application.properties file][RE01]

1. Open the *application.properties* file in a text editor, and add the following lines to the file, and replace the sample values with the appropriate properties with appropriate credentials:

   ```yaml
   # Specify the instrumentation key of your Application Insights resource.
   azure.application-insights.instrumentation-key=[your ikey from the resource]
   # Specify the name of your springboot application. This can be any logical name you would like to give to your app.
   spring.application.name=[your app name]
   ```

   For more ways to fine tune Application Insights please refer to [Application Insights Springboot starter readme](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/blob/master/azure-application-insights-spring-boot-starter/README.md).

   > [!NOTE]
   > 
   > You can use different Application Insights instrumentation keys (i.e different resources) for different profiles like PROD, DEV etc. 
   > Please refer to [Spring Boot Profile Specific Properties] for additional information. 

1. Save and close the *application.properties* file.

1. Create a folder named *controller* under the source folder for your package; for example:

   `D:\Microsoft\demo\src\main\java\com\example\demo\controller`

   -or-

   `/users/example/home/demo/src/main/java/com/example/demo/controller`

1. Create a new file named *TestController.java* in the *controller* folder. Open the file in a text editor and add the following code to it:

   ```java
    package com.example.demo;

    import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.TelemetryClient;
    import java.io.IOException;
    import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
    import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.telemetry.Duration;

    @RestController
    @RequestMapping("/sample")
    public class TestController {

        @Autowired
        TelemetryClient telemetryClient;

        @GetMapping("/hello")
        public String hello() {

            //track a custom event  
            telemetryClient.trackEvent("Sending a custom event...");

            //trace a custom trace
            telemetryClient.trackTrace("Sending a custom trace....");

            //track a custom metric
            telemetryClient.trackMetric("custom metric", 1.0);

            //track a custom dependency
            telemetryClient.trackDependency("SQL", "Insert", new Duration(0, 0, 1, 1, 1), true);

            return "hello";
        }
    }
   ```

   Where you will need to replace `com.example.demo` with the package name for your project.

1. Save and close the *TestController.java* file.

1. Build your Spring Boot application with Maven and run it; for example:

   ```shell
   mvn clean package
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

1. Test the web app by browsing to http://localhost:8080/sample/hello using a web browser, or use the syntax like the following example if you have curl available:

   ```shell
   curl http://localhost:8080/sample/hello
   ```

   You should see the "hello!" message from your sample controller displayed. Application Insights will automatically collect this request and send it as a telemetry item with it's associated custom event, custom metric, custom dependency and custom trace as specified in the controller logic. 

   After a few seconds you should see the data on Azure portal. 

   ![Azure Portal][AZ05]

   You can click on Application Map tile to view high level components and their interaction with each other. This is a recommended place to get a high level overview of entire application. Each Spring Boot Microservice is recognized by the spring application name. Please remember to set it.

   ![Azure Portal][AZ08] 

## Configure Springboot Application to send log4j logs to Application Insights

1. Modify the POM.xml file of the project and add/modify the dependencies section with following. 

```xml
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
        <exclusions>
            <exclusion>
                <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
                <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-logging</artifactId>
            </exclusion>
        </exclusions>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-test</artifactId>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-log4j2</artifactId>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
        <artifactId>applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
        <version>1.1.1</version>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
        <artifactId>applicationinsights-logging-log4j2</artifactId>
        <version>2.1.1</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

2. Save and close the *POM.xml* file.

3. In \src\main\resources folder, create a new file *log4j2.xml* and configure it. For example:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<Configuration packages="com.microsoft.applicationinsights.log4j.v2">
  <Properties>
    <Property name="LOG_PATTERN">
      %d{yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS} %5p ${hostName} --- [%15.15t] %-40.40c{1.} : %m%n%ex
    </Property>
  </Properties>
  <Appenders>
    <Console name="Console" target="SYSTEM_OUT">
      <PatternLayout pattern="%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n"/>
    </Console>
    <ApplicationInsightsAppender name="aiAppender">
    </ApplicationInsightsAppender>
  </Appenders>
  <Loggers>
    <Root level="trace">
      <AppenderRef ref="Console"  />
      <AppenderRef ref="aiAppender"  />
    </Root>
  </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```
4. Build and run the Spring Boot application again as shown above. 

Within few seconds, you should see all the spring logs being available on Azure Portal. 

![Azure Portal][AZ06]

You can even look at the detailed log messages and do analysis on Analytics Portal. 

![Azure Portal][AZ07]

## Next steps

For more information about using Spring Boot applications on Azure, see the following articles:

* [Deploy a Spring Boot Application to the Azure App Service](deploy-spring-boot-java-web-app-on-azure.md)

* [Running a Spring Boot Application on a Kubernetes Cluster in the Azure Container Service](deploy-spring-boot-java-app-on-kubernetes.md)

Application Insights supports automatic collection of external dependencies and its correlation with incoming requests. Currently we support autocollection of Oracle, MsSQL, MySQL and Redis. For more details on enabling autocollection please follow the article [how to use Application Insights Java agent](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/application-insights/app-insights-java-agent).

For more information about Azure Application Insights, and it's monitoring capabilities, see the **[Application Insights]** home page.

For more information about additional configuration details of Application Insights Spring Boot Starter, please refer to this [link](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/blob/master/azure-application-insights-spring-boot-starter/README.md).

For feature requests and potential bugs, please open issues on our [GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/issues) repository.

For more information about using Azure with Java, see the [Azure for Java Developers] and the [Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services].

The **[Spring Framework]** is an open-source solution that helps Java developers create enterprise-level applications. One of the more-popular projects that is built on top of that platform is [Spring Boot], which provides a simplified approach for creating stand-alone Java applications. To help developers get started with Spring Boot, several sample Spring Boot packages are available at [https://github.com/spring-guides/](https://github.com/spring-guides/). In addition to choosing from the list of basic Spring Boot projects, the **[Spring Initializr]** helps developers get started with creating custom Spring Boot applications.

<!-- URL List -->

[Azure for Java Developers]: https://docs.microsoft.com/java/azure/
[free Azure account]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/
[Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services]: https://java.visualstudio.com/
[MSDN subscriber benefits]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/
[Spring Boot]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/
[Spring Boot Profile Specific Properties]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/boot-features-external-config.html#boot-features-external-config-profile-specific-properties
[Spring Initializr]: https://start.spring.io/
[Spring Framework]: https://spring.io/
[Application Insights]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/application-insights/

<!-- IMG List -->

[AZ01]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Create_resource.png
[AZ02]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Create_resource_2.png
[AZ03]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Create_resource_3.png
[AZ04]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Get_IKey.png
[AZ05]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/OverviewBladeResults.png
[AZ06]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Search_and_traces.png
[AZ07]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/traces_details.png
[AZ08]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/AppMap.png

[SI01]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/spring_start.png
[SI02]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/After_extract.png

[RE01]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/applicationproperties_loc.png
[RE02]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/applicationinsightsproperties.png

Commit message:

Removing deprecated links from Spring articles

docs-ref-conceptual/spring-framework/configure-spring-boot-java-applicationinsights.md, after:

---
title: Configure a Spring Boot Initializer app to use Azure Application Insights SpringBoot Starter
description: Configure a Spring Boot application created with the Spring Initializr to use Appliaction Insights SpringBoot Starter.
services: Application-Insights
documentationcenter: java
author: dhaval24
manager: alexklim
editor: ''
ms.assetid:
ms.author: dhdoshi
ms.date: 12/17/2018
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: Azure Monitor
ms.tgt_pltfrm: application-insights
ms.topic: article
ms.workload: na
---

# Configure a Spring Boot Initializer app to use Application Insights

This article walks you through creating a Spring Boot application using **[Spring Initializr]**, that uses Azure Application Insights Spring Boot Starter for end-to-end monitoring of Java applications on cloud.

## Prerequisites

The following prerequisites are required in order to complete the steps in this article:

* An Azure subscription; if you don't already have an Azure subscription, you can activate your [MSDN subscriber benefits] or sign up for a [free Azure account].
* A supported Java Development Kit (JDK). For more information about the JDKs available for use when developing on Azure, see <https://aka.ms/azure-jdks>.
* [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), version 3.0 or later.

## Create a custom application using the Spring Initializr

1. Browse to [https://start.spring.io/](https://start.spring.io/).

1. Specify that you want to generate a **Maven** project with **Java**, enter the **Group** and **Artifact** names for your application, and then select web dependency in the dependenies section.

   ![Basic Spring Initializr options][SI01]

   > [!NOTE]
   >
   > The Spring Initializr will use the **Group** and **Artifact** names to create the package name; for example: *com.example.demo*.
   >

1. Click the button to **Generate Project**.

1. When prompted, download the project to a path on your local computer.

1. After you have extracted the files on your local system, your custom Spring Boot application will be ready for editing.

   ![Custom Spring Boot project files][SI02]

## Create an Application Insights Resource on Azure

1. Browse to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com/> and click **+New**.

   ![Azure portal][AZ01]

1. Click **Management Tools**, and then click **Application Insights**.

   ![Azure portal][AZ02]

1. On the **New Application Insights Resource** page, specify the following information:

   * Enter the **Name** for your Application Insights resource.
   * Choose the **Application Type** to Java Web Application.
   * Specify your **Subscription**, **Resource group** and **Location**.
   * Select Pin to dashboard option, if you would like to pin the resource on your Azure portal.

   When you have specified these options, click **Create** to create your Application Insights resource.

   ![Azure portal][AZ03]

1. Once your resource has been created, you will see it listed on your Azure **Dashboard**, as well as under the **All Resources** pages. You can click on your resource on any of those locations to open the overview page of the Application Insights resource. From this overview page please copy the **instrumentation key**.

   ![Azure portal][AZ04]

## Configure your downloaded Spring Boot Application to use Application Insights

1. Locate the *POM.xml* file in the root directory of your app, and add the following dependency in its dependencies section. 

```XML
 <dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>1.1.1</version>
</dependency>
```

1. Locate the *application.properties* file in the *resources* directory of your app, or create the file if it does not already exist.

   ![Locate the application.properties file][RE01]

1. Open the *application.properties* file in a text editor, and add the following lines to the file, and replace the sample values with the appropriate properties with appropriate credentials:

   ```yaml
   # Specify the instrumentation key of your Application Insights resource.
   azure.application-insights.instrumentation-key=[your ikey from the resource]
   # Specify the name of your springboot application. This can be any logical name you would like to give to your app.
   spring.application.name=[your app name]
   ```

   For more ways to fine tune Application Insights please refer to [Application Insights Springboot starter readme](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/blob/master/azure-application-insights-spring-boot-starter/README.md).

   > [!NOTE]
   > 
   > You can use different Application Insights instrumentation keys (i.e different resources) for different profiles like PROD, DEV etc. 
   > Please refer to [Spring Boot Profile Specific Properties] for additional information. 

1. Save and close the *application.properties* file.

1. Create a folder named *controller* under the source folder for your package; for example:

   `D:\Microsoft\demo\src\main\java\com\example\demo\controller`

   -or-

   `/users/example/home/demo/src/main/java/com/example/demo/controller`

1. Create a new file named *TestController.java* in the *controller* folder. Open the file in a text editor and add the following code to it:

   ```java
    package com.example.demo;

    import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.TelemetryClient;
    import java.io.IOException;
    import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
    import com.microsoft.applicationinsights.telemetry.Duration;

    @RestController
    @RequestMapping("/sample")
    public class TestController {

        @Autowired
        TelemetryClient telemetryClient;

        @GetMapping("/hello")
        public String hello() {

            //track a custom event  
            telemetryClient.trackEvent("Sending a custom event...");

            //trace a custom trace
            telemetryClient.trackTrace("Sending a custom trace....");

            //track a custom metric
            telemetryClient.trackMetric("custom metric", 1.0);

            //track a custom dependency
            telemetryClient.trackDependency("SQL", "Insert", new Duration(0, 0, 1, 1, 1), true);

            return "hello";
        }
    }
   ```

   Where you will need to replace `com.example.demo` with the package name for your project.

1. Save and close the *TestController.java* file.

1. Build your Spring Boot application with Maven and run it; for example:

   ```shell
   mvn clean package
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

1. Test the web app by browsing to http://localhost:8080/sample/hello using a web browser, or use the syntax like the following example if you have curl available:

   ```shell
   curl http://localhost:8080/sample/hello
   ```

   You should see the "hello!" message from your sample controller displayed. Application Insights will automatically collect this request and send it as a telemetry item with it's associated custom event, custom metric, custom dependency and custom trace as specified in the controller logic. 

   After a few seconds you should see the data on Azure portal. 

   ![Azure Portal][AZ05]

   You can click on Application Map tile to view high level components and their interaction with each other. This is a recommended place to get a high level overview of entire application. Each Spring Boot Microservice is recognized by the spring application name. Please remember to set it.

   ![Azure Portal][AZ08] 

## Configure Springboot Application to send log4j logs to Application Insights

1. Modify the POM.xml file of the project and add/modify the dependencies section with following. 

```xml
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
        <exclusions>
            <exclusion>
                <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
                <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-logging</artifactId>
            </exclusion>
        </exclusions>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-test</artifactId>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-log4j2</artifactId>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
        <artifactId>applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
        <version>1.1.1</version>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
        <artifactId>applicationinsights-logging-log4j2</artifactId>
        <version>2.1.1</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

2. Save and close the *POM.xml* file.

3. In \src\main\resources folder, create a new file *log4j2.xml* and configure it. For example:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<Configuration packages="com.microsoft.applicationinsights.log4j.v2">
  <Properties>
    <Property name="LOG_PATTERN">
      %d{yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS} %5p ${hostName} --- [%15.15t] %-40.40c{1.} : %m%n%ex
    </Property>
  </Properties>
  <Appenders>
    <Console name="Console" target="SYSTEM_OUT">
      <PatternLayout pattern="%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n"/>
    </Console>
    <ApplicationInsightsAppender name="aiAppender">
    </ApplicationInsightsAppender>
  </Appenders>
  <Loggers>
    <Root level="trace">
      <AppenderRef ref="Console"  />
      <AppenderRef ref="aiAppender"  />
    </Root>
  </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```
4. Build and run the Spring Boot application again as shown above. 

Within few seconds, you should see all the spring logs being available on Azure Portal. 

![Azure Portal][AZ06]

You can even look at the detailed log messages and do analysis on Analytics Portal. 

![Azure Portal][AZ07]

## Next steps

To learn more about Spring and Azure, continue to the Spring on Azure documentation center.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Spring on Azure](/java/azure/spring-framework)

### Additional Resources

For more information about using Spring Boot applications on Azure, see the following articles:

* [Deploy a Spring Boot Application to the Azure App Service](deploy-spring-boot-java-web-app-on-azure.md)

* [Running a Spring Boot Application on a Kubernetes Cluster in the Azure Container Service](deploy-spring-boot-java-app-on-kubernetes.md)

Application Insights supports automatic collection of external dependencies and its correlation with incoming requests. Currently we support autocollection of Oracle, MsSQL, MySQL and Redis. For more details on enabling autocollection please follow the article [how to use Application Insights Java agent](/azure/application-insights/app-insights-java-agent).

For more information about Azure Application Insights, and it's monitoring capabilities, see the **[Application Insights]** home page.

For more information about additional configuration details of Application Insights Spring Boot Starter, please refer to this [link](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/blob/master/azure-application-insights-spring-boot-starter/README.md).

For feature requests and potential bugs, please open issues on our [GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/issues) repository.

For more information about using Azure with Java, see the [Azure for Java Developers] and the [Working with Azure DevOps and Java].

The **[Spring Framework]** is an open-source solution that helps Java developers create enterprise-level applications. One of the more-popular projects that is built on top of that platform is [Spring Boot], which provides a simplified approach for creating stand-alone Java applications. To help developers get started with Spring Boot, several sample Spring Boot packages are available at [https://github.com/spring-guides/](https://github.com/spring-guides/). In addition to choosing from the list of basic Spring Boot projects, the **[Spring Initializr]** helps developers get started with creating custom Spring Boot applications.

<!-- URL List -->

[Azure for Java Developers]: /java/azure/
[free Azure account]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/
[Working with Azure DevOps and Java]: /azure/devops/
[MSDN subscriber benefits]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/
[Spring Boot]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/
[Spring Boot Profile Specific Properties]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/boot-features-external-config.html#boot-features-external-config-profile-specific-properties
[Spring Initializr]: https://start.spring.io/
[Spring Framework]: https://spring.io/
[Application Insights]: /azure/application-insights/

<!-- IMG List -->

[AZ01]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Create_resource.png
[AZ02]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Create_resource_2.png
[AZ03]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Create_resource_3.png
[AZ04]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Get_IKey.png
[AZ05]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/OverviewBladeResults.png
[AZ06]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/Search_and_traces.png
[AZ07]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/traces_details.png
[AZ08]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/AppMap.png

[SI01]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/spring_start.png
[SI02]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/After_extract.png

[RE01]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/applicationproperties_loc.png
[RE02]: ./media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-application-insights/applicationinsightsproperties.png
