docs-ref-conceptual/spring-framework/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub.md, before:

---
title: How to create a Spring Cloud Stream Binder application with Azure Event Hubs
description: Learn how to configure a Java-based Spring Cloud Stream Binder application created with the Spring Boot Initializr with Azure Event Hubs.
services: event-hubs
documentationcenter: java
author: rmcmurray
manager: mbaldwin
editor: ''
ms.assetid:
ms.author: robmcm
ms.date: 11/21/2018
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: event-hubs
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.workload: na
---

# How to create a Spring Cloud Stream Binder application with Azure Event Hubs

## Overview

This article demonstrates how to configure a Java-based Spring Cloud Stream Binder application created with the Spring Boot Initializer with Azure Event Hubs.

## Prerequisites

The following prerequisites are required in order to follow the steps in this article:

* An Azure subscription; if you don't already have an Azure subscription, you can activate your [MSDN subscriber benefits] or sign up for a [free Azure account].
* A supported Java Development Kit (JDK). For more information about the JDKs available for use when developing on Azure, see <https://aka.ms/azure-jdks>.
* [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), version 3.0 or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Spring Boot version 2.0 or greater is required to complete the steps in this article.
>

## Create an Azure Event Hub using the Azure portal

### Create an Azure Event Hub Namespace

1. Browse to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com/> and sign in.

1. Click **+Create a resource**, then **Internet of Things**, and then click **Event Hubs**.

   ![Create Azure Event Hub Namespace][IMG01]

1. On the **Create Namespace** page, enter the following information:

   * Enter a unique **Name**, which will become part of the URI for your event hub namespace. For example: if you entered **wingtiptoys** for the **Name**, the URI would be *wingtiptoys.servicebus.windows.net*.
   * Choose a **Pricing tier** for your event hub namespace.
   * Choose the **Subscription** you want to use for your namespace.
   * Specify whether to create a new **Resource group** for your namespace, or choose an existing resource group.
   * Specify the **Location** for your event hub namespace.

   ![Specify Azure Event Hub Namespace options][IMG02]

1. When you have specified the options listed above, click **Create** to create your namespace.

### Create an Azure Event Hub in your namespace

1. Browse to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com/>.

1. Click **All resources**, and then click the namespace that you created.

   ![Select Azure Event Hub Namespace][IMG03]

1. Click **Event Hubs**, and then click **+Event Hub**.

   ![Add New Azure Event Hub][IMG04]

1. On the **Create Event Hub** page, enter a unique **Name** for your Event Hub, and then click **Create**.

   ![Create Azure Event Hub][IMG05]

1. When your Event Hub has been created, it will be listed on the **Event Hubs** page.

   ![Create Azure Event Hub][IMG06]

### Create an Azure Storage Account for your Event Hub checkpoints

1. Browse to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com/>.

1. Click **+Create a resource**, then **Storage**, and then click **Storage Account**.

   ![Create Azure Storage Account][IMG07]

1. On the **Create Namespace** page, enter the following information:

   * Enter a unique **Name**, which will become part of the URI for your storage account. For example: if you entered **wingtiptoys** for the **Name**, the URI would be *wingtiptoys.core.windows.net*.
   * Choose **Blob storage** for the **Account kind**.
   * Specify the **Location** for your storage account.
   * Choose the **Subscription** you want to use for your storage account.
   * Specify whether to create a new **Resource group** for your storage account, or choose an existing resource group.

   ![Specify Azure Storage Account options][IMG08]

1. When you have specified the options listed above, click **Create** to create your storage account.

## Create a simple Spring Boot application with the Spring Initializr

1. Browse to <https://start.spring.io/>.

1. Specify the following options:

   * Generate a **Maven** project with **Java**.
   * Specify a **Spring Boot** version that is equal to or greater than 2.0.
   * Specify the **Group** and **Artifact** names for your application.
   * Add the **Web** dependency.

      ![Basic Spring Initializr options][SI01]

   > [!NOTE]
   >
   > The Spring Initializr uses the **Group** and **Artifact** names to create the package name; for example: *com.wingtiptoys.eventhub*.
   >

1. When you have specified the options listed above, click **Generate Project**.

1. When prompted, download the project to a path on your local computer.

   ![Download Spring project][SI02]

1. After you have extracted the files on your local system, your simple Spring Boot application will be ready for editing.

## Configure your Spring Boot app to use the Azure Event Hub starter

1. Locate the *pom.xml* file in the root directory of your app; for example:

   `C:\SpringBoot\eventhub\pom.xml`

   -or-

   `/users/example/home/eventhub/pom.xml`

1. Open the *pom.xml* file in a text editor, and add the Spring Cloud Azure Event Hub Stream Binder starter to the list of `<dependencies>`:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>spring-cloud-azure-eventhub-stream-binder</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0.M2</version>
   </dependency>
   ```

   ![Edit pom.xml file][SI03]

1. Save and close the *pom.xml* file.

## Create an Azure Credential File

1. Open a command prompt.

1. Navigate to the *resources* directory of your Spring Boot app; for example:

   ```shell
   cd C:\SpringBoot\eventhub\src\main\resources
   ```

   -or-

   ```shell
   cd /users/example/home/eventhub/src/main/resources
   ```

1. Sign in to your Azure account:

   ```azurecli
   az login
   ```

1. List your subscriptions:

   ```azurecli
   az account list
   ```
   Azure will return a list of your subscriptions, and you will need to copy the GUID for the subscription that you want to use; for example:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "cloudName": "AzureCloud",
       "id": "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111",
       "isDefault": true,
       "name": "Converted Windows Azure MSDN - Visual Studio Ultimate",
       "state": "Enabled",
       "tenantId": "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222",
       "user": {
         "name": "gena.soto@wingtiptoys.com",
         "type": "user"
       }
     }
   ]
   ```
1. Specify the GUID for the subscription you want to use with Azure; for example:

   ```azurecli
   az account set -s 11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111
   ```

1. Create your Azure Credential file:

   ```azurecli
   az ad sp create-for-rbac --sdk-auth > my.azureauth
   ```

   This command will create a *my.azureauth* file in your *resources* directory with contents that resemble the following example:

   ```json
   {
     "clientId": "33333333-3333-3333-3333-333333333333",
     "clientSecret": "44444444-4444-4444-4444-444444444444",
     "subscriptionId": "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111",
     "tenantId": "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222",
     "activeDirectoryEndpointUrl": "https://login.microsoftonline.com",
     "resourceManagerEndpointUrl": "https://management.azure.com/",
     "activeDirectoryGraphResourceId": "https://graph.windows.net/",
     "sqlManagementEndpointUrl": "https://management.core.windows.net:8443/",
     "galleryEndpointUrl": "https://gallery.azure.com/",
     "managementEndpointUrl": "https://management.core.windows.net/"
   }
   ```

## Configure your Spring Boot app to use your Azure Event Hub

1. Locate the *application.properties* in the *resources* directory of your app; for example:

   `C:\SpringBoot\eventhub\src\main\resources\application.properties`

   -or-

   `/users/example/home/eventhub/src/main/resources/application.properties`

2. Open the *application.properties* file in a text editor, add the following lines, and then replace the sample values with the appropriate properties for your event hub:

   ```yaml
   spring.cloud.azure.credential-file-path=my.azureauth
   spring.cloud.azure.resource-group=wingtiptoysresources
   spring.cloud.azure.region=West US
   spring.cloud.azure.eventhub.namespace=wingtiptoysnamespace
   spring.cloud.azure.eventhub.checkpoint-storage-account=wingtiptoysstorage
   spring.cloud.stream.bindings.input.destination=wingtiptoyshub
   spring.cloud.stream.bindings.input.group=$Default
   spring.cloud.stream.bindings.output.destination=wingtiptoyshub
   spring.cloud.stream.eventhub.bindings.input.consumer.checkpoint-mode=MANUAL
   ```
   Where:

   |                          Field                           |                                                                                   Description                                                                                    |
   |----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
   |        `spring.cloud.azure.credential-file-path`         |                                                    Specifies Azure credential file that you created earlier in this tutorial.                                                    |
   |           `spring.cloud.azure.resource-group`            |                                                      Specifies the Azure Resource Group that contains your Azure Event Hub.                                                      |
   |               `spring.cloud.azure.region`                |                                           Specifies the geographical region that you specified when you created your Azure Event Hub.                                            |
   |         `spring.cloud.azure.eventhub.namespace`          |                                          Specifies the unique name that you specified when you created your Azure Event Hub Namespace.                                           |
   | `spring.cloud.azure.eventhub.checkpoint-storage-account` |                                                    Specifies Azure Storage Account that you created earlier in this tutorial.                                                    |
   |     `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.input.destination`     |                            Specifies the input destination Azure Event Hub, which for this tutorial is the  hub you created earlier in this tutorial.                            |
   |       `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.input.group `        | Specifies a Consumer Group from Azure Event Hub, which can be set to '$Default' in order to use the basic consumer group that was created when you created your Azure Event Hub. |
   |    `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.output.destination`     |                               Specifies the output destination Azure Event Hub, which for this tutorial will be the same as the input destination.                               |


3. Save and close the *application.properties* file.

## Add sample code to implement basic event hub functionality

In this section, you create the necessary Java classes for sending events to your event hub.

### Modify the main application class

1. Locate the main application Java file in the package directory of your app; for example:

   `C:\SpringBoot\eventhub\src\main\java\com\wingtiptoys\eventhub\EventhubApplication.java`

   -or-

   `/users/example/home/eventhub/src/main/java/com/wingtiptoys/eventhub/EventhubApplication.java`

1. Open the main application Java file in a text editor, and add the following lines to the file:

   ```java
   package com.wingtiptoys.eventhub;

   import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
   import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;

   @SpringBootApplication
   public class EventhubApplication {
      public static void main(String[] args) {
         SpringApplication.run(EventhubApplication.class, args);
      }
   }
   ```

1. Save and close the main application Java file.

### Create a new class for the source connector

1. Create a new Java file named *EventhubSource.java* in the package directory of your app, then open the file in a text editor and add the following lines:

   ```java
   package com.wingtiptoys.eventhub;

   import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.annotation.EnableBinding;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.messaging.Source;
   import org.springframework.messaging.support.GenericMessage;
   import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.PostMapping;
   import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestBody;
   import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

   @EnableBinding(Source.class)
   @RestController
   public class EventhubSource {

      @Autowired
      private Source source;

      @PostMapping("/messages")
      public String postMessage(@RequestBody String message) {
         this.source.output().send(new GenericMessage<>(message));
         return message;
      }
   }
   ```
1. Save and close the *EventhubSource.java* file.

### Create a new class for the sink connector

1. Create a new Java file named *EventhubSink.java* in the package directory of your app, then open the file in a text editor and add the following lines:

   ```java
   package com.wingtiptoys.eventhub;

   import com.microsoft.azure.spring.integration.core.AzureHeaders;
   import com.microsoft.azure.spring.integration.core.api.Checkpointer;
   import org.slf4j.Logger;
   import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.annotation.EnableBinding;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.annotation.StreamListener;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.messaging.Sink;
   import org.springframework.messaging.handler.annotation.Header;

   @EnableBinding(Sink.class)
   public class EventhubSink {

      private static final Logger LOGGER = LoggerFactory.getLogger(EventhubSink.class);

      @StreamListener(Sink.INPUT)
      public void handleMessage(String message, @Header(AzureHeaders.CHECKPOINTER) Checkpointer checkpointer) {
         LOGGER.info("New message received: '{}'", message);
         checkpointer.success().handle((r, ex) -> {
            if (ex == null) {
               LOGGER.info("Message '{}' successfully checkpointed", message);
            }
            return null;
         });
      }
   }
   ```

1. Save and close the *EventhubSink.java* file.

## Build and test your application

1. Open a command prompt and change directory to the folder where your *pom.xml* file is located; for example:

   `cd C:\SpringBoot\eventhub`

   -or-

   `cd /users/example/home/eventhub`

1. Build your Spring Boot application with Maven and run it; for example:

   ```shell
   mvn clean package
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

1. Once your application is running, you can use *curl* to test your application; for example:

   ```shell
   curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: text/plain" -d "hello" http://localhost:8080/messages
   ```
   You should see "hello" posted to your application's logs. For example:

   ```shell
   [Thread-13] INFO com.wingtiptoys.eventhub.EventhubSink - New message received: 'hello'
   [pool-10-thread-7] INFO com.wingtiptoys.eventhub.EventhubSink - Message 'hello' successfully checkpointed
   ```

## Next steps

For more information about Azure support for Event Hub Stream Binder, see the following articles:

* [What is Azure Event Hubs?](/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-about)

* [Create an Event Hubs namespace and an event hub using the Azure portal](/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-create)

* [How to use the Spring Boot Starter for Apache Kafka with Azure Event Hubs](configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-kafka-azure-event-hub.md)

For more information about using Azure with Java, see the [Azure for Java Developers] and the [Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services].

The **[Spring Framework]** is an open-source solution that helps Java developers create enterprise-level applications. One of the more-popular projects that is built on top of that platform is [Spring Boot], which provides a simplified approach for creating stand-alone Java applications. To help developers get started with Spring Boot, several sample Spring Boot packages are available at <https://github.com/spring-guides/>. In addition to choosing from the list of basic Spring Boot projects, the **[Spring Initializr]** helps developers get started with creating custom Spring Boot applications.

<!-- URL List -->

[free Azure account]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/
[Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services]: https://java.visualstudio.com/
[MSDN subscriber benefits]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/
[Spring Boot]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/
[Spring Initializr]: https://start.spring.io/
[Spring Framework]: https://spring.io/

<!-- IMG List -->

[IMG01]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-01.png
[IMG02]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-02.png
[IMG03]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-03.png
[IMG04]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-04.png
[IMG05]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-05.png
[IMG06]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-06.png
[IMG07]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-07.png
[IMG08]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-08.png

[SI01]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-project-01.png
[SI02]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-project-02.png
[SI03]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-project-03.png

Commit message:

Adding new Spring Data articles (#743)
* Adding new Spring Data articles

* Adding additional images

* Adding additional articles and updates

* Quick formatting update

* Adding additional images

* Adding additional articles and updates

* Removing deprecated links from Spring articles

* Adding two articles and updating several articles with minor syntax fixes

* Updating TOC with new articles and layout

docs-ref-conceptual/spring-framework/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub.md, after:

---
title: How to create a Spring Cloud Stream Binder application with Azure Event Hubs
description: Learn how to configure a Java-based Spring Cloud Stream Binder application created with the Spring Boot Initializr with Azure Event Hubs.
services: event-hubs
documentationcenter: java
author: rmcmurray
manager: mbaldwin
editor: ''
ms.assetid:
ms.author: robmcm
ms.date: 12/19/2018
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: event-hubs
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.workload: na
---

# How to create a Spring Cloud Stream Binder application with Azure Event Hubs

## Overview

This article demonstrates how to configure a Java-based Spring Cloud Stream Binder application created with the Spring Boot Initializer with Azure Event Hubs.

## Prerequisites

The following prerequisites are required in order to follow the steps in this article:

* An Azure subscription; if you don't already have an Azure subscription, you can activate your [MSDN subscriber benefits] or sign up for a [free Azure account].
* A supported Java Development Kit (JDK). For more information about the JDKs available for use when developing on Azure, see <https://aka.ms/azure-jdks>.
* [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), version 3.0 or later.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Spring Boot version 2.0 or greater is required to complete the steps in this article.
>

## Create an Azure Event Hub using the Azure portal

### Create an Azure Event Hub Namespace

1. Browse to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com/> and sign in.

1. Click **+Create a resource**, then **Internet of Things**, and then click **Event Hubs**.

   ![Create Azure Event Hub Namespace][IMG01]

1. On the **Create Namespace** page, enter the following information:

   * Enter a unique **Name**, which will become part of the URI for your event hub namespace. For example: if you entered **wingtiptoys** for the **Name**, the URI would be *wingtiptoys.servicebus.windows.net*.
   * Choose a **Pricing tier** for your event hub namespace.
   * Choose the **Subscription** you want to use for your namespace.
   * Specify whether to create a new **Resource group** for your namespace, or choose an existing resource group.
   * Specify the **Location** for your event hub namespace.

   ![Specify Azure Event Hub Namespace options][IMG02]

1. When you have specified the options listed above, click **Create** to create your namespace.

### Create an Azure Event Hub in your namespace

1. Browse to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com/>.

1. Click **All resources**, and then click the namespace that you created.

   ![Select Azure Event Hub Namespace][IMG03]

1. Click **Event Hubs**, and then click **+Event Hub**.

   ![Add New Azure Event Hub][IMG04]

1. On the **Create Event Hub** page, enter a unique **Name** for your Event Hub, and then click **Create**.

   ![Create Azure Event Hub][IMG05]

1. When your Event Hub has been created, it will be listed on the **Event Hubs** page.

   ![Create Azure Event Hub][IMG06]

### Create an Azure Storage Account for your Event Hub checkpoints

1. Browse to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com/>.

1. Click **+Create a resource**, then **Storage**, and then click **Storage Account**.

   ![Create Azure Storage Account][IMG07]

1. On the **Create Namespace** page, enter the following information:

   * Enter a unique **Name**, which will become part of the URI for your storage account. For example: if you entered **wingtiptoys** for the **Name**, the URI would be *wingtiptoys.core.windows.net*.
   * Choose **Blob storage** for the **Account kind**.
   * Specify the **Location** for your storage account.
   * Choose the **Subscription** you want to use for your storage account.
   * Specify whether to create a new **Resource group** for your storage account, or choose an existing resource group.

   ![Specify Azure Storage Account options][IMG08]

1. When you have specified the options listed above, click **Create** to create your storage account.

## Create a simple Spring Boot application with the Spring Initializr

1. Browse to <https://start.spring.io/>.

1. Specify the following options:

   * Generate a **Maven** project with **Java**.
   * Specify a **Spring Boot** version that is equal to or greater than 2.0.
   * Specify the **Group** and **Artifact** names for your application.
   * Add the **Web** dependency.

      ![Basic Spring Initializr options][SI01]

   > [!NOTE]
   >
   > The Spring Initializr uses the **Group** and **Artifact** names to create the package name; for example: *com.wingtiptoys.eventhub*.
   >

1. When you have specified the options listed above, click **Generate Project**.

1. When prompted, download the project to a path on your local computer.

   ![Download Spring project][SI02]

1. After you have extracted the files on your local system, your simple Spring Boot application will be ready for editing.

## Configure your Spring Boot app to use the Azure Event Hub starter

1. Locate the *pom.xml* file in the root directory of your app; for example:

   `C:\SpringBoot\eventhub\pom.xml`

   -or-

   `/users/example/home/eventhub/pom.xml`

1. Open the *pom.xml* file in a text editor, and add the Spring Cloud Azure Event Hub Stream Binder starter to the list of `<dependencies>`:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>spring-cloud-azure-eventhub-stream-binder</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0.M2</version>
   </dependency>
   ```

   ![Edit pom.xml file][SI03]

1. Save and close the *pom.xml* file.

## Create an Azure Credential File

1. Open a command prompt.

1. Navigate to the *resources* directory of your Spring Boot app; for example:

   ```shell
   cd C:\SpringBoot\eventhub\src\main\resources
   ```

   -or-

   ```shell
   cd /users/example/home/eventhub/src/main/resources
   ```

1. Sign in to your Azure account:

   ```azurecli
   az login
   ```

1. List your subscriptions:

   ```azurecli
   az account list
   ```
   Azure will return a list of your subscriptions, and you will need to copy the GUID for the subscription that you want to use; for example:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "cloudName": "AzureCloud",
       "id": "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111",
       "isDefault": true,
       "name": "Converted Windows Azure MSDN - Visual Studio Ultimate",
       "state": "Enabled",
       "tenantId": "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222",
       "user": {
         "name": "gena.soto@wingtiptoys.com",
         "type": "user"
       }
     }
   ]
   ```
1. Specify the GUID for the subscription you want to use with Azure; for example:

   ```azurecli
   az account set -s 11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111
   ```

1. Create your Azure Credential file:

   ```azurecli
   az ad sp create-for-rbac --sdk-auth > my.azureauth
   ```

   This command will create a *my.azureauth* file in your *resources* directory with contents that resemble the following example:

   ```json
   {
     "clientId": "33333333-3333-3333-3333-333333333333",
     "clientSecret": "44444444-4444-4444-4444-444444444444",
     "subscriptionId": "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111",
     "tenantId": "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222",
     "activeDirectoryEndpointUrl": "https://login.microsoftonline.com",
     "resourceManagerEndpointUrl": "https://management.azure.com/",
     "activeDirectoryGraphResourceId": "https://graph.windows.net/",
     "sqlManagementEndpointUrl": "https://management.core.windows.net:8443/",
     "galleryEndpointUrl": "https://gallery.azure.com/",
     "managementEndpointUrl": "https://management.core.windows.net/"
   }
   ```

## Configure your Spring Boot app to use your Azure Event Hub

1. Locate the *application.properties* in the *resources* directory of your app; for example:

   `C:\SpringBoot\eventhub\src\main\resources\application.properties`

   -or-

   `/users/example/home/eventhub/src/main/resources/application.properties`

2. Open the *application.properties* file in a text editor, add the following lines, and then replace the sample values with the appropriate properties for your event hub:

   ```yaml
   spring.cloud.azure.credential-file-path=my.azureauth
   spring.cloud.azure.resource-group=wingtiptoysresources
   spring.cloud.azure.region=West US
   spring.cloud.azure.eventhub.namespace=wingtiptoysnamespace
   spring.cloud.azure.eventhub.checkpoint-storage-account=wingtiptoysstorage
   spring.cloud.stream.bindings.input.destination=wingtiptoyshub
   spring.cloud.stream.bindings.input.group=$Default
   spring.cloud.stream.bindings.output.destination=wingtiptoyshub
   spring.cloud.stream.eventhub.bindings.input.consumer.checkpoint-mode=MANUAL
   ```
   Where:

   |                          Field                           |                                                                                   Description                                                                                    |
   |----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
   |        `spring.cloud.azure.credential-file-path`         |                                                    Specifies Azure credential file that you created earlier in this tutorial.                                                    |
   |           `spring.cloud.azure.resource-group`            |                                                      Specifies the Azure Resource Group that contains your Azure Event Hub.                                                      |
   |               `spring.cloud.azure.region`                |                                           Specifies the geographical region that you specified when you created your Azure Event Hub.                                            |
   |         `spring.cloud.azure.eventhub.namespace`          |                                          Specifies the unique name that you specified when you created your Azure Event Hub Namespace.                                           |
   | `spring.cloud.azure.eventhub.checkpoint-storage-account` |                                                    Specifies Azure Storage Account that you created earlier in this tutorial.                                                    |
   |     `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.input.destination`     |                            Specifies the input destination Azure Event Hub, which for this tutorial is the  hub you created earlier in this tutorial.                            |
   |       `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.input.group `        | Specifies a Consumer Group from Azure Event Hub, which can be set to '$Default' in order to use the basic consumer group that was created when you created your Azure Event Hub. |
   |    `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.output.destination`     |                               Specifies the output destination Azure Event Hub, which for this tutorial will be the same as the input destination.                               |


3. Save and close the *application.properties* file.

## Add sample code to implement basic event hub functionality

In this section, you create the necessary Java classes for sending events to your event hub.

### Modify the main application class

1. Locate the main application Java file in the package directory of your app; for example:

   `C:\SpringBoot\eventhub\src\main\java\com\wingtiptoys\eventhub\EventhubApplication.java`

   -or-

   `/users/example/home/eventhub/src/main/java/com/wingtiptoys/eventhub/EventhubApplication.java`

1. Open the main application Java file in a text editor, and add the following lines to the file:

   ```java
   package com.wingtiptoys.eventhub;

   import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
   import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;

   @SpringBootApplication
   public class EventhubApplication {
      public static void main(String[] args) {
         SpringApplication.run(EventhubApplication.class, args);
      }
   }
   ```

1. Save and close the main application Java file.

### Create a new class for the source connector

1. Create a new Java file named *EventhubSource.java* in the package directory of your app, then open the file in a text editor and add the following lines:

   ```java
   package com.wingtiptoys.eventhub;

   import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.annotation.EnableBinding;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.messaging.Source;
   import org.springframework.messaging.support.GenericMessage;
   import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.PostMapping;
   import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestBody;
   import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

   @EnableBinding(Source.class)
   @RestController
   public class EventhubSource {

      @Autowired
      private Source source;

      @PostMapping("/messages")
      public String postMessage(@RequestBody String message) {
         this.source.output().send(new GenericMessage<>(message));
         return message;
      }
   }
   ```
1. Save and close the *EventhubSource.java* file.

### Create a new class for the sink connector

1. Create a new Java file named *EventhubSink.java* in the package directory of your app, then open the file in a text editor and add the following lines:

   ```java
   package com.wingtiptoys.eventhub;

   import com.microsoft.azure.spring.integration.core.AzureHeaders;
   import com.microsoft.azure.spring.integration.core.api.Checkpointer;
   import org.slf4j.Logger;
   import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.annotation.EnableBinding;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.annotation.StreamListener;
   import org.springframework.cloud.stream.messaging.Sink;
   import org.springframework.messaging.handler.annotation.Header;

   @EnableBinding(Sink.class)
   public class EventhubSink {

      private static final Logger LOGGER = LoggerFactory.getLogger(EventhubSink.class);

      @StreamListener(Sink.INPUT)
      public void handleMessage(String message, @Header(AzureHeaders.CHECKPOINTER) Checkpointer checkpointer) {
         LOGGER.info("New message received: '{}'", message);
         checkpointer.success().handle((r, ex) -> {
            if (ex == null) {
               LOGGER.info("Message '{}' successfully checkpointed", message);
            }
            return null;
         });
      }
   }
   ```

1. Save and close the *EventhubSink.java* file.

## Build and test your application

1. Open a command prompt and change directory to the folder where your *pom.xml* file is located; for example:

   `cd C:\SpringBoot\eventhub`

   -or-

   `cd /users/example/home/eventhub`

1. Build your Spring Boot application with Maven and run it; for example:

   ```shell
   mvn clean package
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

1. Once your application is running, you can use *curl* to test your application; for example:

   ```shell
   curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: text/plain" -d "hello" http://localhost:8080/messages
   ```
   You should see "hello" posted to your application's logs. For example:

   ```shell
   [Thread-13] INFO com.wingtiptoys.eventhub.EventhubSink - New message received: 'hello'
   [pool-10-thread-7] INFO com.wingtiptoys.eventhub.EventhubSink - Message 'hello' successfully checkpointed
   ```

## Next steps

To learn more about Spring and Azure, continue to the Spring on Azure documentation center.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Spring on Azure](/java/azure/spring-framework)

### Additional Resources

For more information about Azure support for Event Hub Stream Binder, see the following articles:

* [What is Azure Event Hubs?](/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-about)

* [Create an Event Hubs namespace and an event hub using the Azure portal](/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-create)

* [How to use the Spring Boot Starter for Apache Kafka with Azure Event Hubs](configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-kafka-azure-event-hub.md)

For more information about using Azure with Java, see the [Azure for Java Developers] and the [Working with Azure DevOps and Java].

The **[Spring Framework]** is an open-source solution that helps Java developers create enterprise-level applications. One of the more-popular projects that is built on top of that platform is [Spring Boot], which provides a simplified approach for creating stand-alone Java applications. To help developers get started with Spring Boot, several sample Spring Boot packages are available at <https://github.com/spring-guides/>. In addition to choosing from the list of basic Spring Boot projects, the **[Spring Initializr]** helps developers get started with creating custom Spring Boot applications.

<!-- URL List -->

[free Azure account]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/
[Working with Azure DevOps and Java]: /azure/devops/
[MSDN subscriber benefits]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/
[Spring Boot]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/
[Spring Initializr]: https://start.spring.io/
[Spring Framework]: https://spring.io/

<!-- IMG List -->

[IMG01]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-01.png
[IMG02]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-02.png
[IMG03]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-03.png
[IMG04]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-04.png
[IMG05]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-05.png
[IMG06]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-06.png
[IMG07]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-07.png
[IMG08]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-event-hub-08.png

[SI01]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-project-01.png
[SI02]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-project-02.png
[SI03]: ./media/configure-spring-cloud-stream-binder-java-app-azure-event-hub/create-project-03.png
