docs-ref-conceptual/spring-framework/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault.md, before:

---
title: How to use the Spring Boot Starter for Azure Key Vault
description: Learn how to configure a Spring Boot Initializer app with the Azure Key Vault starter.
services: key-vault
documentationcenter: java
author: rmcmurray
manager: mbaldwin
editor: ''

ms.assetid:
ms.author: robmcm
ms.date: 11/13/2018
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: key-vault
ms.tgt_pltfrm: multiple
ms.topic: article
ms.workload: identity
---

# How to use the Spring Boot Starter for Azure Key Vault

## Overview

This article demonstrates creating an app with the **[Spring Initializr]** that uses the Spring Boot Starter for Azure Key Vault to retrieve a connection string that is stored as a secret in a key vault.

## Prerequisites

The following prerequisites are required in order to complete the steps in this article:

* An Azure subscription; if you don't already have an Azure subscription, you can activate your [MSDN subscriber benefits] or sign up for a [free Azure account].
* A supported Java Developer Kit (JDK). For more information about the JDKs available for use when developing on Azure, see <https://aka.ms/azure-jdks>.
* [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), version 3.0 or later.

## Create an app using the Spring Initialzr

1. Browse to <https://start.spring.io/>.

1. Specify that you want to generate a **Maven** project with **Java**, enter the **Group** and **Aritifact** names for your application, and then click the link to **Switch to the full version** of the Spring Initializr.

   ![Specify Group and Aritifact names][secrets-01]

1. Scroll down to the **Azure** section and check the box for **Azure Key Vault**.

   ![Select Azure Key Vault starter][secrets-02]

1. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click the button to **Generate Project**.

   ![Generate Spring Boot project][secrets-03]

1. When prompted, download the project to a path on your local computer.

## Sign into Azure and select the subscription to use

1. Open a command prompt.

1. Sign into your Azure account by using the Azure CLI:

   ```azurecli
   az login
   ```
   Follow the instructions to complete the sign-in process.

1. List your subscriptions:

   ```azurecli
   az account list
   ```
   Azure will return a list of your subscriptions, and you will need to copy the GUID for the subscription that you want to use; for example:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "cloudName": "AzureCloud",
       "id": "ssssssss-ssss-ssss-ssss-ssssssssssss",
       "isDefault": true,
       "name": "Converted Windows Azure MSDN - Visual Studio Ultimate",
       "state": "Enabled",
       "tenantId": "tttttttt-tttt-tttt-tttt-tttttttttttt",
       "user": {
         "name": "contoso@microsoft.com",
         "type": "user"
       }
     }
   ]
   ```

1. Specify the GUID for the account you want to use with Azure; for example:

   ```azurecli
   az account set -s ssssssss-ssss-ssss-ssss-ssssssssssss
   ```

## Create and configure a new Azure Key Vault using the Azure CLI

1. Create a resource group for the Azure resources you will use for your key vault; for example:
   ```azurecli
   az group create --name wingtiptoysresources --location westus
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `name` | Specifies a unique name for your resource group. |
   | `location` | Specifies the [Azure region](https://azure.microsoft.com/regions/) where your resource group will be hosted. |

   The Azure CLI will display the results of your resource group creation; for example:  

   ```json
   {
     "id": "/subscriptions/ssssssss-ssss-ssss-ssss-ssssssssssss/resourceGroups/wingtiptoysresources",
     "location": "westus",
     "managedBy": null,
     "name": "wingtiptoysresources",
     "properties": {
       "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
     },
     "tags": null
   }
   ```

2. Create an Azure service principal from your application registration; for example:
   ```shell
   az ad sp create-for-rbac --name "wingtiptoysuser"
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `name` | Specifies the name for your Azure service principal. |

   The Azure CLI will return a JSON status message that contains the *appId* and *password*, which you will use later as the client id and client password; for example:

   ```json
   {
     "appId": "iiiiiiii-iiii-iiii-iiii-iiiiiiiiiiii",
     "displayName": "wingtiptoysuser",
     "name": "http://wingtiptoysuser",
     "password": "pppppppp-pppp-pppp-pppp-pppppppppppp",
     "tenant": "tttttttt-tttt-tttt-tttt-tttttttttttt"
   }
   ```

3. Create a new key vault in the resource group; for example:
   ```azurecli
   az keyvault create --name wingtiptoyskeyvault --resource-group wingtiptoysresources --location westus --enabled-for-deployment true --enabled-for-disk-encryption true --enabled-for-template-deployment true --sku standard --query properties.vaultUri
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `name` | Specifies a unique name for your key vault. |
   | `location` | Specifies the [Azure region](https://azure.microsoft.com/regions/) where your resource group will be hosted. |
   | `enabled-for-deployment` | Specifies the [key vault deployment option](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault). |
   | `enabled-for-disk-encryption` | Specifies the [key vault encryption option](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault). |
   | `enabled-for-template-deployment` | Specifies the [key vault encryption option](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault). |
   | `sku` | Specifies the [key vault SKU option](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault). |
   | `query` | Specifies a value to retrieve from the response, which is the key vault URI that you will need to complete this tutorial. |

   The Azure CLI will display the URI for key vault, which you will use later; for example:  

   ```
   "https://wingtiptoyskeyvault.vault.azure.net"
   ```

4. Set the access policy for the Azure service principal you created earlier; for example:
   ```azurecli
   az keyvault set-policy --name wingtiptoyskeyvault --secret-permission set get list delete --spn "iiiiiiii-iiii-iiii-iiii-iiiiiiiiiiii"
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `name` | Specifies your key vault name from earlier. |
   | `secret-permission` | Specifies the [security policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault) for your key vault. |
   | `spn` | Specifies the GUID for your application registration from earlier. |

   The Azure CLI will display the results of your security policy creation; for example:  

   ```json
   {
     "id": "/subscriptions/ssssssss-ssss-ssss-ssss-ssssssssssss/...",
     "location": "westus",
     "name": "wingtiptoyskeyvault",
     "properties": {
       ...
       ... (A long list of values will be displayed here.)
       ...
     },
     "resourceGroup": "wingtiptoysresources",
     "tags": {},
     "type": "Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults"
   }
   ```

5. Store a secret in your new key vault; for example:
   ```azurecli
   az keyvault secret set --vault-name "wingtiptoyskeyvault" --name "connectionString" --value "jdbc:sqlserver://SERVER.database.windows.net:1433;database=DATABASE;"
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `vault-name` | Specifies your key vault name from earlier. |
   | `name` | Specifies the name of your secret. |
   | `value` | Specifies the value of your secret. |

   The Azure CLI will display the results of your secret creation; for example:  

   ```json
   {
     "attributes": {
       "created": "2017-12-01T09:00:16+00:00",
       "enabled": true,
       "expires": null,
       "notBefore": null,
       "recoveryLevel": "Purgeable",
       "updated": "2017-12-01T09:00:16+00:00"
     },
     "contentType": null,
     "id": "https://wingtiptoyskeyvault.vault.azure.net/secrets/connectionString/123456789abcdef123456789abcdef",
     "kid": null,
     "managed": null,
     "tags": {
       "file-encoding": "utf-8"
     },
     "value": "jdbc:sqlserver://wingtiptoys.database.windows.net:1433;database=DATABASE;"
   }
   ```

## Configure and compile your Spring Boot application

1. Extract the files from the Spring Boot project archive files that you downloaded earlier into a directory.

2. Navigate to the *src/main/resources* folder in your project and open the *application.properties* file in a text editor.

3. Add the values for your key vault using values from the steps that you completed earlier in this tutorial; for example:
   ```yaml
   azure.keyvault.uri=https://wingtiptoyskeyvault.vault.azure.net/
   azure.keyvault.client-id=iiiiiiii-iiii-iiii-iiii-iiiiiiiiiiii
   azure.keyvault.client-key=pppppppp-pppp-pppp-pppp-pppppppppppp
   ```
   Where:

   |          Parameter          |                                 Description                                 |
   |-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
   |    `azure.keyvault.uri`     |           Specifies the URI from when you created your key vault.           |
   | `azure.keyvault.client-id`  |  Specifies the *appId* GUID from when you created your service principal.   |
   | `azure.keyvault.client-key` | Specifies the *password* GUID from when you created your service principal. |


4. Navigate to the main source code file of your project; for example: */src/main/java/com/wingtiptoys/secrets*.

5. Open the application's main Java file in a file in a text editor; for example: *SecretsApplication.java*, and add the following lines to the file:

   ```java
   package com.wingtiptoys.secrets;

   import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
   import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
   import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Value;
   import org.springframework.boot.CommandLineRunner;

   @SpringBootApplication
   public class SecretsApplication implements CommandLineRunner {

      @Value("${connectionString}")
      private String connectionString;

      public static void main(String[] args) {
         SpringApplication.run(SecretsApplication.class, args);
      }

      public void run(String... varl) throws Exception {
         System.out.println(String.format("\nConnection String stored in Azure Key Vault:\n%s\n",connectionString));
      }
   }
   ```
   This code example retrieves the connection string from the key vault and displays it to the command line.

6. Save and close the Java file.

## Build and test your app

1. Navigate to the directory where the *pom.xml* file for your Spring Boot app is located:

1. Build your Spring Boot application with Maven; for example:

   ```bash
   mvn clean package
   ```

   Maven will display the results of your build.

   ![Spring Boot application build status][build-application-01]

1. Run your Spring Boot application with Maven; the application will display the connection string from your key vault. For example:

   ```bash
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

   ![Spring Boot run time message][build-application-02]

## Next steps

For more information about using Azure Key Vaults, see the following articles:

* [Key Vault Documentation].

* [Get started with Azure Key Vault]

For more information about using Spring Boot applications on Azure, see the following articles:

* [Deploy a Spring Boot Application to the Azure App Service](deploy-spring-boot-java-web-app-on-azure.md)

* [Running a Spring Boot Application on a Kubernetes Cluster in the Azure Container Service](deploy-spring-boot-java-app-on-kubernetes.md)

For more information about using Azure with Java, see the [Azure for Java Developers] and the [Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services].

<!-- URL List -->

[Key Vault Documentation]: /azure/key-vault/
[Get started with Azure Key Vault]: /azure/key-vault/key-vault-get-started
[Azure for Java Developers]: https://docs.microsoft.com/java/azure/
[free Azure account]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/
[Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services]: https://java.visualstudio.com/
[MSDN subscriber benefits]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/
[Spring Boot]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/
[Spring Initializr]: https://start.spring.io/
[Spring Framework]: https://spring.io/

<!-- IMG List -->

[secrets-01]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/secrets-01.png
[secrets-02]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/secrets-02.png
[secrets-03]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/secrets-03.png

[build-application-01]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/build-application-01.png
[build-application-02]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/build-application-02.png

Commit message:

Updating Spring Boot Azure Key Vault article based on feedback from patricka

docs-ref-conceptual/spring-framework/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault.md, after:

---
title: How to use the Spring Boot Starter for Azure Key Vault
description: Learn how to configure a Spring Boot Initializer app with the Azure Key Vault starter.
services: key-vault
documentationcenter: java
author: rmcmurray
manager: mbaldwin
editor: ''

ms.assetid:
ms.author: robmcm
ms.date: 11/13/2018
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: key-vault
ms.tgt_pltfrm: multiple
ms.topic: article
ms.workload: identity
---

# How to use the Spring Boot Starter for Azure Key Vault

## Overview

This article demonstrates creating an app with the **[Spring Initializr]** that uses the Spring Boot Starter for Azure Key Vault to retrieve a connection string that is stored as a secret in a key vault.

## Prerequisites

The following prerequisites are required in order to complete the steps in this article:

* An Azure subscription; if you don't already have an Azure subscription, you can activate your [MSDN subscriber benefits] or sign up for a [free Azure account].
* A supported Java Developer Kit (JDK). For more information about the JDKs available for use when developing on Azure, see <https://aka.ms/azure-jdks>.
* [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), version 3.0 or later.

## Create an app using Spring Initializr

1. Browse to <https://start.spring.io/>.

1. Specify that you want to generate a **Maven** project with **Java**, enter the **Group** and **Aritifact** names for your application, and then click the link to **Switch to the full version** of the Spring Initializr.

   ![Specify Group and Aritifact names][secrets-01]

1. Scroll down to the **Azure** section and check the box for **Azure Key Vault**.

   ![Select Azure Key Vault starter][secrets-02]

1. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click the button to **Generate Project**.

   ![Generate Spring Boot project][secrets-03]

1. When prompted, download the project to a path on your local computer.

## Sign into Azure

1. Open a command prompt.

1. Sign into your Azure account by using the Azure CLI:

   ```azurecli
   az login
   ```
   Follow the instructions to complete the sign-in process.

1. List your subscriptions:

   ```azurecli
   az account list
   ```
   Azure will return a list of your subscriptions, and you will need to copy the GUID for the subscription that you want to use; for example:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "cloudName": "AzureCloud",
       "id": "ssssssss-ssss-ssss-ssss-ssssssssssss",
       "isDefault": true,
       "name": "Converted Windows Azure MSDN - Visual Studio Ultimate",
       "state": "Enabled",
       "tenantId": "tttttttt-tttt-tttt-tttt-tttttttttttt",
       "user": {
         "name": "contoso@microsoft.com",
         "type": "user"
       }
     }
   ]
   ```

1. Specify the GUID for the account you want to use with Azure; for example:

   ```azurecli
   az account set -s ssssssss-ssss-ssss-ssss-ssssssssssss
   ```

## Create a new Azure Key Vault

1. Create a resource group for the Azure resources you will use for your key vault; for example:
   ```azurecli
   az group create --name wingtiptoysresources --location westus
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `name` | Specifies a unique name for your resource group. |
   | `location` | Specifies the [Azure region](https://azure.microsoft.com/regions/) where your resource group will be hosted. |

   The Azure CLI will display the results of your resource group creation; for example:  

   ```json
   {
     "id": "/subscriptions/ssssssss-ssss-ssss-ssss-ssssssssssss/resourceGroups/wingtiptoysresources",
     "location": "westus",
     "managedBy": null,
     "name": "wingtiptoysresources",
     "properties": {
       "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
     },
     "tags": null
   }
   ```

2. Create an Azure service principal from your application registration; for example:
   ```shell
   az ad sp create-for-rbac --name "wingtiptoysuser"
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `name` | Specifies the name for your Azure service principal. |

   The Azure CLI will return a JSON status message that contains the *appId* and *password*, which you will use later as the client id and client password; for example:

   ```json
   {
     "appId": "iiiiiiii-iiii-iiii-iiii-iiiiiiiiiiii",
     "displayName": "wingtiptoysuser",
     "name": "http://wingtiptoysuser",
     "password": "pppppppp-pppp-pppp-pppp-pppppppppppp",
     "tenant": "tttttttt-tttt-tttt-tttt-tttttttttttt"
   }
   ```

3. Create a new key vault in the resource group; for example:
   ```azurecli
   az keyvault create --name wingtiptoyskeyvault --resource-group wingtiptoysresources --location westus --enabled-for-deployment true --enabled-for-disk-encryption true --enabled-for-template-deployment true --sku standard --query properties.vaultUri
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `name` | Specifies a unique name for your key vault. |
   | `location` | Specifies the [Azure region](https://azure.microsoft.com/regions/) where your resource group will be hosted. |
   | `enabled-for-deployment` | Specifies the [key vault deployment option](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault). |
   | `enabled-for-disk-encryption` | Specifies the [key vault encryption option](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault). |
   | `enabled-for-template-deployment` | Specifies the [key vault encryption option](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault). |
   | `sku` | Specifies the [key vault SKU option](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault). |
   | `query` | Specifies a value to retrieve from the response, which is the key vault URI that you will need to complete this tutorial. |

   The Azure CLI will display the URI for key vault, which you will use later; for example:  

   ```
   "https://wingtiptoyskeyvault.vault.azure.net"
   ```

4. Set the access policy for the Azure service principal you created earlier; for example:
   ```azurecli
   az keyvault set-policy --name wingtiptoyskeyvault --secret-permission set get list delete --spn "iiiiiiii-iiii-iiii-iiii-iiiiiiiiiiii"
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `name` | Specifies your key vault name from earlier. |
   | `secret-permission` | Specifies the [security policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/keyvault) for your key vault. |
   | `spn` | Specifies the GUID for your application registration from earlier. |

   The Azure CLI will display the results of your security policy creation; for example:  

   ```json
   {
     "id": "/subscriptions/ssssssss-ssss-ssss-ssss-ssssssssssss/...",
     "location": "westus",
     "name": "wingtiptoyskeyvault",
     "properties": {
       ...
       ... (A long list of values will be displayed here.)
       ...
     },
     "resourceGroup": "wingtiptoysresources",
     "tags": {},
     "type": "Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults"
   }
   ```

5. Store a secret in your new key vault; for example:
   ```azurecli
   az keyvault secret set --vault-name "wingtiptoyskeyvault" --name "connectionString" --value "jdbc:sqlserver://SERVER.database.windows.net:1433;database=DATABASE;"
   ```
   Where:

   | Parameter | Description |
   |---|---|
   | `vault-name` | Specifies your key vault name from earlier. |
   | `name` | Specifies the name of your secret. |
   | `value` | Specifies the value of your secret. |

   The Azure CLI will display the results of your secret creation; for example:  

   ```json
   {
     "attributes": {
       "created": "2017-12-01T09:00:16+00:00",
       "enabled": true,
       "expires": null,
       "notBefore": null,
       "recoveryLevel": "Purgeable",
       "updated": "2017-12-01T09:00:16+00:00"
     },
     "contentType": null,
     "id": "https://wingtiptoyskeyvault.vault.azure.net/secrets/connectionString/123456789abcdef123456789abcdef",
     "kid": null,
     "managed": null,
     "tags": {
       "file-encoding": "utf-8"
     },
     "value": "jdbc:sqlserver://wingtiptoys.database.windows.net:1433;database=DATABASE;"
   }
   ```

## Configure and compile your app

1. Extract the files from the Spring Boot project archive files that you downloaded earlier into a directory.

2. Navigate to the *src/main/resources* folder in your project and open the *application.properties* file in a text editor.

3. Add the values for your key vault using values from the steps that you completed earlier in this tutorial; for example:
   ```yaml
   azure.keyvault.uri=https://wingtiptoyskeyvault.vault.azure.net/
   azure.keyvault.client-id=iiiiiiii-iiii-iiii-iiii-iiiiiiiiiiii
   azure.keyvault.client-key=pppppppp-pppp-pppp-pppp-pppppppppppp
   ```
   Where:

   |          Parameter          |                                 Description                                 |
   |-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
   |    `azure.keyvault.uri`     |           Specifies the URI from when you created your key vault.           |
   | `azure.keyvault.client-id`  |  Specifies the *appId* GUID from when you created your service principal.   |
   | `azure.keyvault.client-key` | Specifies the *password* GUID from when you created your service principal. |


4. Navigate to the main source code file of your project; for example: */src/main/java/com/wingtiptoys/secrets*.

5. Open the application's main Java file in a file in a text editor; for example: *SecretsApplication.java*, and add the following lines to the file:

   ```java
   package com.wingtiptoys.secrets;

   import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
   import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
   import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Value;
   import org.springframework.boot.CommandLineRunner;

   @SpringBootApplication
   public class SecretsApplication implements CommandLineRunner {

      @Value("${connectionString}")
      private String connectionString;

      public static void main(String[] args) {
         SpringApplication.run(SecretsApplication.class, args);
      }

      public void run(String... varl) throws Exception {
         System.out.println(String.format("\nConnection String stored in Azure Key Vault:\n%s\n",connectionString));
      }
   }
   ```
   This code example retrieves the connection string from the key vault and displays it to the command line.

6. Save and close the Java file.

## Build and test your app

1. Navigate to the directory where the *pom.xml* file for your Spring Boot app is located:

1. Build your Spring Boot application with Maven; for example:

   ```bash
   mvn clean package
   ```

   Maven will display the results of your build.

   ![Spring Boot application build status][build-application-01]

1. Run your Spring Boot application with Maven; the application will display the connection string from your key vault. For example:

   ```bash
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

   ![Spring Boot run time message][build-application-02]

## Summary

In this tutorial, you created a new Java web application using the **[Spring Initializr]**, created ab Azure Key Vault to store sensitive information, and then configured your application to retrieve information from your key vault.

For more information about using Azure Key Vaults, see the following articles:

* [Key Vault Documentation].

* [Get started with Azure Key Vault]

For more information about using Spring Boot applications on Azure, see the following articles:

* [Deploy a Spring Boot Application to the Azure App Service](deploy-spring-boot-java-web-app-on-azure.md)

* [Running a Spring Boot Application on a Kubernetes Cluster in the Azure Container Service](deploy-spring-boot-java-app-on-kubernetes.md)

For more information about using Azure with Java, see the [Azure for Java Developers] and the [Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services].

## Next steps

To learn more about Spring and Azure, continue to the Spring on Azure documentation center.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Spring on Azure](/java/azure/spring-framework)

<!-- URL List -->

[Key Vault Documentation]: /azure/key-vault/
[Get started with Azure Key Vault]: /azure/key-vault/key-vault-get-started
[Azure for Java Developers]: https://docs.microsoft.com/java/azure/
[free Azure account]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/
[Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services]: https://java.visualstudio.com/
[MSDN subscriber benefits]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/
[Spring Boot]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/
[Spring Initializr]: https://start.spring.io/
[Spring Framework]: https://spring.io/

<!-- IMG List -->

[secrets-01]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/secrets-01.png
[secrets-02]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/secrets-02.png
[secrets-03]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/secrets-03.png

[build-application-01]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/build-application-01.png
[build-application-02]: media/configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-key-vault/build-application-02.png
