docs-ref-conceptual/spring-framework/spring-boot-starters-for-azure.md, before:

---
title: Spring Boot Starters for Azure
description: This article describes the various Spring Boot Starters that are available for Azure.
services: ''
documentationcenter: java
author: rmcmurray
manager: routlaw
editor: ''

ms.assetid: 
ms.author: robmcm
ms.date: 02/01/2018
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: multiple
ms.tgt_pltfrm: multiple
ms.topic: article
ms.workload: na
---

# Spring Boot Starters for Azure

This article describes the various Spring Boot Starters for the [Spring Initializr] that provide Java developers with integration features for working with Microsoft Azure.

![Azure Spring Boot Starters][spring-boot-starters]

The following Spring Boot Starters are currently available for Azure:

* **[Azure Support](#azure-support)**

   Provides auto-configuration support for Azure Services; e.g. Service Bus, Storage, Active Directory, etc.

* **[Azure Active Directory](#azure-active-directory)**

   Provides integration support for Spring Security with Azure Active Directory for authentication.

* **[Azure Key Vault](#azure-key-vault)**

   Provides Spring value annotation support for integration with Azure Key Vault Secrets.

* **[Azure Storage](#azure-storage)**

   Provides Spring Boot support for Azure Storage services.

<a name="azure-support"></a>
## Azure Support

This Spring Boot Starter provides auto-configuration support for Azure Services; for example: Service Bus, Storage, Active Directory, Cosmos DB, Key Vault, etc.

For examples of how to use the various Azure features that are provided by this starter, see the following:

* <https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-spring-boot/tree/master/azure-spring-boot-samples>

When you add this starter to a Spring Boot project, the following changes are made to the *pom.xml* file:

* The following property is added to `<properties>` element:

   ```xml
   <properties>
      <!-- Other properties will be listed here -->
      <azure.version>0.2.0</azure.version>
   </properties>
   ```

* The default `spring-boot-starter` dependency is replaced with the following:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>azure-spring-boot</artifactId>
   </dependency>
   ```

* The following section is added to the file:

   ```xml
   <dependencyManagement>
      <dependencies>
         <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
            <artifactId>azure-spring-boot-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${azure.version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
         </dependency>
      </dependencies>
   </dependencyManagement>
   ```

<a name="azure-active-directory"></a>
## Azure Active Directory

This Spring Boot Starter provides auto-configuration support for Spring Security in order to provide integration with Azure Active Directory for authentication.

For examples of how to use the Azure Active Directory features that are provided by this starter, see the following:

* <https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-spring-boot/tree/master/azure-spring-boot-samples/azure-active-directory-spring-boot-sample>

When you add this starter to a Spring Boot project, the following changes are made to the *pom.xml* file:

* The following property is added to `<properties>` element:

   ```xml
   <properties>
      <!-- Other properties will be listed here -->
      <azure.version>0.2.0</azure.version>
   </properties>
   ```

* The default `spring-boot-starter` dependency is replaced with the following:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>azure-active-directory-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
   </dependency>
   ```

* The following section is added to the file:

   ```xml
   <dependencyManagement>
      <dependencies>
         <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
            <artifactId>azure-spring-boot-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${azure.version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
         </dependency>
      </dependencies>
   </dependencyManagement>
   ```

<a name="azure-key-vault"></a>
## Azure Key Vault

This Spring Boot Starter provides Spring value annotation support for integration with Azure Key Vault Secrets.

For examples of how to use the Azure Key Vault features that are provided by this starter, see the following:

* <https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-spring-boot/tree/master/azure-spring-boot-samples/azure-keyvault-secrets-spring-boot-sample>

When you add this starter to a Spring Boot project, the following changes are made to the *pom.xml* file:

* The following property is added to `<properties>` element:

   ```xml
   <properties>
      <!-- Other properties will be listed here -->
      <azure.version>0.2.0</azure.version>
   </properties>
   ```

* The default `spring-boot-starter` dependency is replaced with the following:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>azure-keyvault-secrets-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
   </dependency>
   ```

* The following section is added to the file:

   ```xml
   <dependencyManagement>
      <dependencies>
         <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
            <artifactId>azure-spring-boot-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${azure.version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
         </dependency>
      </dependencies>
   </dependencyManagement>
   ```

<a name="azure-storage"></a>
## Azure Storage

This Spring Boot Starter provides Spring Boot integration support for Azure Storage services.

For examples of how to use the Azure Storage features that are provided by this starter, see the following:

* [How to use the Spring Boot Starter for Azure Storage](configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-storage.md)

* <https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-spring-boot/tree/master/azure-spring-boot-samples/azure-storage-spring-boot-sample>

When you add this starter to a Spring Boot project, the following changes are made to the *pom.xml* file:

* The following property is added to `<properties>` element:

   ```xml
   <properties>
      <!-- Other properties will be listed here -->
      <azure.version>0.2.0</azure.version>
   </properties>
   ```

* The default `spring-boot-starter` dependency is replaced with the following:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>azure-storage-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
   </dependency>
   ```

* The following section is added to the file:

   ```xml
   <dependencyManagement>
      <dependencies>
         <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
            <artifactId>azure-spring-boot-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${azure.version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
         </dependency>
      </dependencies>
   </dependencyManagement>
   ```

## Next steps

For more information about using [Spring Boot] applications on Azure, see [Spring on Azure].

For more information about using Azure with Java, see the [Azure for Java Developers] and the [Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services].

For help with getting started with your own Spring Boot applications, see the **Spring Initializr** at https://start.spring.io/.

<!-- URL List -->

[Azure for Java Developers]: https://docs.microsoft.com/java/azure/
[Java Tools for Visual Studio Team Services]: https://java.visualstudio.com/
[Spring Boot]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/
[Spring on Azure]: https://docs.microsoft.com/java/azure/spring-framework/
[Spring Framework]: https://spring.io/
[Spring Initializr]: https://start.spring.io/

<!-- IMG List -->

[spring-boot-starters]: media/spring-boot-starters-for-azure/spring-boot-starters-cropped.png

Commit message:

Adding new Spring Data articles (#743)
* Adding new Spring Data articles

* Adding additional images

* Adding additional articles and updates

* Quick formatting update

* Adding additional images

* Adding additional articles and updates

* Removing deprecated links from Spring articles

* Adding two articles and updating several articles with minor syntax fixes

* Updating TOC with new articles and layout

docs-ref-conceptual/spring-framework/spring-boot-starters-for-azure.md, after:

---
title: Spring Boot Starters for Azure
description: This article describes the various Spring Boot Starters that are available for Azure.
services: ''
documentationcenter: java
author: rmcmurray
manager: routlaw
editor: ''
ms.assetid: 
ms.author: robmcm
ms.date: 12/19/2018
ms.devlang: java
ms.service: multiple
ms.tgt_pltfrm: multiple
ms.topic: article
ms.workload: na
---

# Spring Boot Starters for Azure

This article describes the various Spring Boot Starters for the [Spring Initializr] that provide Java developers with integration features for working with Microsoft Azure.

![Azure Spring Boot Starters][spring-boot-starters]

The following Spring Boot Starters are currently available for Azure:

* **[Azure Support](#azure-support)**

   Provides auto-configuration support for Azure Services; e.g. Service Bus, Storage, Active Directory, etc.

* **[Azure Active Directory](#azure-active-directory)**

   Provides integration support for Spring Security with Azure Active Directory for authentication.

* **[Azure Key Vault](#azure-key-vault)**

   Provides Spring value annotation support for integration with Azure Key Vault Secrets.

* **[Azure Storage](#azure-storage)**

   Provides Spring Boot support for Azure Storage services.

<a name="azure-support"></a>
## Azure Support

This Spring Boot Starter provides auto-configuration support for Azure Services; for example: Service Bus, Storage, Active Directory, Cosmos DB, Key Vault, etc.

For examples of how to use the various Azure features that are provided by this starter, see the following:

* <https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-spring-boot/tree/master/azure-spring-boot-samples>

When you add this starter to a Spring Boot project, the following changes are made to the *pom.xml* file:

* The following property is added to `<properties>` element:

   ```xml
   <properties>
      <!-- Other properties will be listed here -->
      <azure.version>0.2.0</azure.version>
   </properties>
   ```

* The default `spring-boot-starter` dependency is replaced with the following:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>azure-spring-boot</artifactId>
   </dependency>
   ```

* The following section is added to the file:

   ```xml
   <dependencyManagement>
      <dependencies>
         <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
            <artifactId>azure-spring-boot-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${azure.version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
         </dependency>
      </dependencies>
   </dependencyManagement>
   ```

<a name="azure-active-directory"></a>
## Azure Active Directory

This Spring Boot Starter provides auto-configuration support for Spring Security in order to provide integration with Azure Active Directory for authentication.

For examples of how to use the Azure Active Directory features that are provided by this starter, see the following:

* <https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-spring-boot/tree/master/azure-spring-boot-samples/azure-active-directory-spring-boot-sample>

When you add this starter to a Spring Boot project, the following changes are made to the *pom.xml* file:

* The following property is added to `<properties>` element:

   ```xml
   <properties>
      <!-- Other properties will be listed here -->
      <azure.version>0.2.0</azure.version>
   </properties>
   ```

* The default `spring-boot-starter` dependency is replaced with the following:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>azure-active-directory-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
   </dependency>
   ```

* The following section is added to the file:

   ```xml
   <dependencyManagement>
      <dependencies>
         <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
            <artifactId>azure-spring-boot-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${azure.version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
         </dependency>
      </dependencies>
   </dependencyManagement>
   ```

<a name="azure-key-vault"></a>
## Azure Key Vault

This Spring Boot Starter provides Spring value annotation support for integration with Azure Key Vault Secrets.

For examples of how to use the Azure Key Vault features that are provided by this starter, see the following:

* <https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-spring-boot/tree/master/azure-spring-boot-samples/azure-keyvault-secrets-spring-boot-sample>

When you add this starter to a Spring Boot project, the following changes are made to the *pom.xml* file:

* The following property is added to `<properties>` element:

   ```xml
   <properties>
      <!-- Other properties will be listed here -->
      <azure.version>0.2.0</azure.version>
   </properties>
   ```

* The default `spring-boot-starter` dependency is replaced with the following:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>azure-keyvault-secrets-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
   </dependency>
   ```

* The following section is added to the file:

   ```xml
   <dependencyManagement>
      <dependencies>
         <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
            <artifactId>azure-spring-boot-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${azure.version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
         </dependency>
      </dependencies>
   </dependencyManagement>
   ```

<a name="azure-storage"></a>
## Azure Storage

This Spring Boot Starter provides Spring Boot integration support for Azure Storage services.

For examples of how to use the Azure Storage features that are provided by this starter, see the following:

* [How to use the Spring Boot Starter for Azure Storage](configure-spring-boot-starter-java-app-with-azure-storage.md)

* <https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-spring-boot/tree/master/azure-spring-boot-samples/azure-storage-spring-boot-sample>

When you add this starter to a Spring Boot project, the following changes are made to the *pom.xml* file:

* The following property is added to `<properties>` element:

   ```xml
   <properties>
      <!-- Other properties will be listed here -->
      <azure.version>0.2.0</azure.version>
   </properties>
   ```

* The default `spring-boot-starter` dependency is replaced with the following:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
      <artifactId>azure-storage-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
   </dependency>
   ```

* The following section is added to the file:

   ```xml
   <dependencyManagement>
      <dependencies>
         <dependency>
            <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
            <artifactId>azure-spring-boot-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${azure.version}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
         </dependency>
      </dependencies>
   </dependencyManagement>
   ```

## Next steps

To learn more about Spring and Azure, continue to the Spring on Azure documentation center.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Spring on Azure](/java/azure/spring-framework)

### Additional Resources

For more information about using [Spring Boot] applications on Azure, see [Spring on Azure].

For more information about using Azure with Java, see the [Azure for Java Developers] and the [Working with Azure DevOps and Java].

For help with getting started with your own Spring Boot applications, see the **Spring Initializr** at https://start.spring.io/.

<!-- URL List -->

[Azure for Java Developers]: /java/azure/
[Working with Azure DevOps and Java]: /azure/devops/
[Spring Boot]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/
[Spring on Azure]: /java/azure/spring-framework/
[Spring Framework]: https://spring.io/
[Spring Initializr]: https://start.spring.io/

<!-- IMG List -->

[spring-boot-starters]: media/spring-boot-starters-for-azure/spring-boot-starters-cropped.png
